Case 1:13-cr-00150-WFK Document 89 Filed 06/23/14 Page 1 of 2 PagelD #: 596

LAW OFFICES OF
FREDERICK L. SOSINSKY
45 BROADWAY, SUITE 3010
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10006

 

TELEPHONE (212) 285-2270
TELECOPIER (212) 248-0999

EMAIL: FredS@newyork-criminaldefense.com

June 23, 2014
BY ECF
Hon. William F. Kuntz I
United States District Judge
Eastern District of New York
225 Cadman Plaza East
Brooklyn, New York 11201

Re: United States v. Mohammad Ajmal Choudhry
Crim. Docket No. 13-150 (S-2)(WFK)

Dear Judge Kuntz:

Defendant Mohammad Ajmal Choudhry respectfully submits this letter in opposition to
the motion in limine of the Government filed yesterday afternoon seeking to preclude the defense
from offering certain statements defendant allegedly made to agents following his arrest. The
statements that are the subject of the Government's application were made during and as part of
the same ten minute statement from which the Government plans to elicit other admissions.
Because the statements sought to be precluded relate to and place in context the portions of the
statements which the Government will offer, despite any hearsay objection, they should be
admitted pursuant to the doctrine of completeness found in Fed. Rule of Evid. 106.

Rule 106 provides that "when a writing or -tecorded statement or part thereof is
introduced by a party, an adverse party may require him at that time to introduce any other part
or any other writing or recorded statement which ought in fairness to be considered
contemporaneously with it." Under the rule, a court should permit admission of additional
portions of statements that are "necessary to explain the admitted portion, to place it in context,
.. to avoid misleading the trier of fact, or to ensure a fair and impartial understanding of the
admitted portion." United States v. Marin, 669 F.2d 73, 84 (2d Cir. 1982) (internal quotation
marks and citations omitted).

Here, to begin with, the Government seeks to offer defendant's statement that he could
"talk about the visa but not Pakistan." However, they move to prevent the jury from hearing
defendant's statements to agents concerning his daughter's marriage to Babar; that at first things
were "OK" with the marriage; that thereafter his daughter met another man (Shujat Abbas) who
"blackmailed" her in an effort to obtain a visa to the US; that he filed a complaint with the U.S.
Embassy informing them of this concern belief that Abbas was using his daughter to get a visa
and other allegations which the defendant believed concerning Shujat Abbas. He also stated to
agents that Abbas had "talked nice" to his daughter in the manner of a "boyfriend girlfriend" to
Case 1:13-cr-00150-WFK Document 89 Filed 06/23/14 Page 2 of 2 PagelD #: 597

win her over and help him obtain a visa. Clearly, the statements referred to above relate to the
issue of "talking about the visa" -- a subject which the Government seeks to introduce. Indeed,
another portion of defendant's statement which the Government seeks to admit explaining how
defendant filed the visa application, wanted a" good life" here in the U.S., hoped that once Babar
came to the U.S. and was reunited with his daughter, without Shujat Abbas, she would change
her mind and agree to live happily with Babar, makes little sense without the context provided by
defendant's earlier references to Abbas and his perceived efforts to trick defendant's daughter
into obtaining his own visa. Thus, the statements the Government seeks to preclude explain,
qualify and ensure a fair understanding of the statements offered and should be admitted under
Rule 106.

The same is true for statements defendant allegedly made to agents explaining that in a
phone call from his daughter, he told her that he had no control over events in Pakistan; that
Abbas' indebtedness to others may have been the reason for the shooting of his relatives; and
that he did not know who killed Abbas' relatives in Pakistan although other relatives of Abbas
had filed a police report stating that defendant's "people" were responsible. Inasmuch as the
Government seeks to offer a portion of defendant's statements referring to what he told his
daughter in the very same phone call with her earlier that day, including an admission that he
might have in that call told her that if she didn't return home he would "kill the boy", referring to
Abbas, the statements sought to be excluded provide context for the latter statement and would
ensure a fair understanding of what was said. Without the jury hearing such statements, they
would unfairly be left with the impression that defendant chose only to detail to agents his
acknowledgment of this purported threat without his contemporaneous denial of guilt to his
daughter regarding past violence.

For the foregoing reasons, the Government's motion to preclude should be denied.

 

FLS: bms

ce: Amanda Hector, Esq. (by ECF)
Margaret Gandy, Esq. (by ECF)
Richard Tucker, Esq (by ECF)
