UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Plaintiff,
v.

Case No. 17-CR-124

MARCUS HUTCHINS,
Defendant.

MOTION TO RECONSIDER AND AMEND CONDITIONS OF RELEASE
The United States of America by its attorneys, Gregory J. Haanstad, United States
Attorney, and Michael Chmelar and Benjamin Proctor, Assistant United States Attorneys, file this
motion to reconsider the modification of defendant Marcus Hutchins’s conditions of release
ordered by this Court on August 24, 2017 (Document 18). The August 24, 2017 order removed
the condition of home confinement and placed Mr. Hutchins on a curfew, with no limitation on his
travel in the United States. As explained below, Mr. Hutchins is a foreign national with no ties to
the United States and his current conditions of bond increase the likelihood of his nonappearance
in this matter.
I.

Background and Conditions of Bond
On July 11, 2017, a federal grand jury returned a six-count indictment that charged Mr.

Hutchins with one count of conspiracy to commit computer fraud and abuse, three counts of
distributing and advertising an electronic communication interception device, one count of
endeavoring to intercept electronic communications, and one count of attempting to access a
computer without authorization.

Page 1 of 5
Case 2:17-cr-00124-JPS-NJ Filed 08/25/17 Page 1 of 5 Document 21

Mr. Hutchins was arrested as he was preparing to board an out-bound flight from Las Vegas
to the U.K. After his arrest on August 2, 2017, Mr. Hutchins had a removal hearing in the U.S.
District Court for Nevada.

The initial bond study in the U.S. District Court for Nevada

recommended Mr. Hutchins be detained based on his lack of ties to the United States. (Document
7). Ultimately, Mr. Hutchins was placed on home confinement at a halfway house and required to
surrender his passport, among satisfying other bond conditions. (Document 7).
As this Court knows, Mr. Hutchins is a citizen and resident of the U.K. He has no family
in the United States. Mr. Hutchins does not own any property in the United States. Mr. Hutchins
is employed by a business located in Los Angeles, CA, but he apparently works remotely, as he
did from the U.K. prior to his arrest. It is fair to say his conditions of bond are the only things
securing his presence in the U.S.
On August 14, 2017, Mr. Hutchins was arraigned and pleaded not guilty to charges in this
case. At that same hearing, the conditions of Mr. Hutchins’s release were discussed and modified
by the Court, with the agreement of the parties. Mr. Hutchins was left under home confinement,
but he was allowed access to a computer, phone, and internet. It was also ordered that Mr.
Hutchins’s travel was limited to the continental U.S., as opposed the Los Angeles and the Eastern
District of Wisconsin.
The next day, on August 15, 2017, the U.S. Probation Office asked the government if it
would object to Mr. Hutchins being placed on a curfew instead of home confinement. This despite
the fact that we had just completed a review his bond conditions with the Court the day before and
that fact that Mr. Hutchins was still in Milwaukee and had not yet identified a place to live in Los
Angeles. In response, the government stated that it would not support such a request at that time.

Page 2 of 5
Case 2:17-cr-00124-JPS-NJ Filed 08/25/17 Page 2 of 5 Document 21

On August 22, 2017, the U.S. Probation Office again asked the government to agree to
have Mr. Hutchins placed on a curfew instead of home confinement. In response to our inquiry as
to why the request to place Mr. Hutchins on a curfew was being made, the government was told
that Mr. Hutchins is only being allowed out of his temporary residence for four hours a week,
which the Pretrial Office thought was unfair. Specifically, the Pretrial Office stated, “because Mr.
Hutchins is on [home] detention, works from home (when he works), has no family here, no
doctors, no anything here . . . doesn’t really have any other business to take care of here . . . [he is]
essentially [under] home incarceration rather than home detention.”
On August 24, 2017, without notice to the government, the Pretrial Office filed a petition
with the Court, in which it asked the Court to eliminate the bond condition of home confinement
for Mr. Hutchins and place him a curfew. The difference being that on a curfew, Mr. Hutchins
would no longer need to contact the seek approval before he left his residence. Instead, on a
curfew, Mr. Hutchins could leave his residence without notice or justification, so long as he
returned to his residence at the designated curfew time, in this case 9:00 p.m. This Court granted
that request. (Document 18).
II.

Argument
The conditions of release for Mr. Hutchins should not be amended because they have been

successful in meeting the goals of 18 U.S.C. § 3142. According to his pre-trial service officer, Mr.
Hutchins has not had “any violations and [is] in constant communication with . . . the Pretrial
Office.” By all accounts, the current conditions of release are working and nothing justifies
altering those conditions at this time.
According to the Pretrial Office, they “[do not] think placing him on a curfew status is
going to make him become more of a flight risk . . . .” Nevertheless, the current bond conditions

Page 3 of 5
Case 2:17-cr-00124-JPS-NJ Filed 08/25/17 Page 3 of 5 Document 21

certainly afford him a greater opportunity to leave the country. That is an undeniable fact, because
the current conditions greatly reduce the ability to identify any attempt to the leave the U.S. For
example, under home confinement, if Mr. Hutchins left his residence without approval or traveled
to a location that was not approved, it would be an immediate signal to Pretrial Office that there
was a potential problem. Under the combined conditions of release as order on August 14 and
August 24, 2017, Mr. Hutchins could leave his residence at 6:00 a.m. travel anywhere in the U.S.,
including to the U.S./Mexican border without raising any concerns, until 9:00 p.m. when/if he
failed to return to his temporary residence.
The Pretrial Office discounts the government’s concerns about placing Mr. Hutchins on a
curfew by relying on the fact that he surrendered his passport. While that may limit his ability to
board a flight, people frequently cross U.S. borders without a passport.

Page 4 of 5
Case 2:17-cr-00124-JPS-NJ Filed 08/25/17 Page 4 of 5 Document 21

Therefore, the United States respectfully asks this Court to reconsider its decision to place
Mr. Hutchins on curfew and deny that request at this time. In the alternative, while preserving our
right to appeal a decision to place Mr. Hutchins on a curfew, the times of the curfew should be
reduced and the Court’s order granting Mr. Hutchins the ability to travel throughout the U.S.
should be revoked. Additionally, Mr. Hutchins travel should be limited to a specific geographic
area, like the boundaries of the City of Los Angeles.

Dated at Milwaukee, Wisconsin this 25th day of August, 2017.
Respectfully submitted,
GREGORY J. HAANSTAD
United States Attorney
By:

/s/ Michael Chmelar
Michael Chmelar
Assistant United States Attorney
United States Attorney’s Office
Eastern District of Wisconsin
517 East Wisconsin Avenue
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53202
Telephone: (414) 297-1728
Fax: (414) 297-1738

Page 5 of 5
Case 2:17-cr-00124-JPS-NJ Filed 08/25/17 Page 5 of 5 Document 21

