Case 1:08-cv-01330-DC Document14 - Filed 04/28/2008 Page 1 of 17

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

 

 

ROBERT BURCK t/a THE NAKED
COWBOY,
Plaintiff,
Vv.

MARS, INCORPORATED and CHUTE NO. 08-1330
GERDEMAN, INC.
Defendants. Judge Denny Chin

 

 

BRIEF IN SUPPORT OF
PLAINTIFF'S MOTION TO STRIKE
DEFENDANT MARS, INCORPORATED'S
FAIR USE AND PARODY AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES

I. INTRODUCTION

Plaintiff herein, Robert Burck t/a The Naked Cowboy ("The Naked Cowboy"),
moves pursuant Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(f) to strike, on the grounds of legal insufficiency, the
fair use and parody affirmative defenses pled by Defendant Mars, Incorporated ("Mars").
As set forth in the Complaint, The Naked Cowboy is a celebrity persona who enjoys
particular notoriety in New York City as a charismatic street performer. Mars, the global
purveyor of candy including "M&Ms," ran a series of advertisements in Times Square-
the world's unofficial marketing mecca-which featured animated M&M characters
dressed to mimic The Naked Cowboy. The Complaint asserts causes of action for (1)
false implied endorsement under 0x00A7 43(a) of the Lanham Act and (2) infringement of the
right of publicity as codified under New York state law.

Mars has answered the Complaint and asserts affirmative defenses pursuant to the

doctrines of parody and fair use, which derive from the First Amendment of the U.S.

 
Case 1:08-cv-01330-DC Document14 - Filed 04/28/2008 Page 2 of 17

Constitution. The Naked Cowboy's motion to strike these defenses is based upon clear
precedent which precludes any attempt to claim a parodic use where the use is a
commercial one and is for the purpose of selling a product wholly unrelated to the
parody. The arguments set forth below fall into three main sections. First, there is a
general discussion of the strict limitations that courts have placed on the parody defense
when asserted in a commercial setting. Second, there is a discussion of case law from
this circuit which clearly distinguishes parodies that constitute an actual product and
which may be (but are not always) protected fair uses; and parodies that are merely used
for the always unprotected purpose of advertising a separate "unrelated" product.
Finally, it is noted that there appears to be no precedent where the parody defense was

successfully asserted against a right of publicity claim.

I. RELEVANT FACTS

For the past ten years, the Plaintiff herein has made his living in Times Square
performing as The Naked Cowboy. Complaint, 95. As a musician and street entertainer,
The Naked Cowboy has performed live in the heart of Times Square for hundreds of
thousands of people. Id. at { 6. The Naked Cowboy performs at all times in his
trademarked and unmistakable costume consisting of a white cowboy hat, a pair of white
cowboy boots, an acoustic guitar, and-of course-his signature white briefs. Id. The
Naked Cowboy's street performances have become a fixture of the New York City
landscape, and have been cited by many sources as one of the City's top ten tourist
attractions. Id, As a result of a combination of hard work and marketing savvy, The
Naked Cowboy has developed himself into a well-recognized celebrity persona in New

York and beyond. Id. at 0x00A7 20.
Case 1:08-cv-01330-DC Document14 ~ Filed 04/28/2008 Page 3 of 17

The Naked Cowboy has capitalized on his celebrity status by appearing on
television, on radio, and in a variety of other live settings including Mardi Gras in New
Orleans. Id. at f] 10-19. He has appeared over the years in music videos, game shows,
talent shows, reality shows, and even a video game. Id. He has also developed product
endorsement relationships with various companies and has licensed the use of his name
and image for the purpose of advertising on multiple occasions. Id. at ff 22-24. In
February 2007, he was featured in a Super Bowl commercial, the unofficial pinnacle of
advertising exposure. Id. at 0x00A7 23.

Apparently recognizing the commercial value of The Naked Cowboy persona,
Mars published a series of advertisements featuring animated M&M candy characters
adorned in The Naked Cowboy's inimitable attire-white cowboy hat, white cowboy
boots, acoustic guitar and white briefs. Id, at J] 25-26. One of these advertisements was
displayed on an oversized video billboard in Times Square, and ran on a continuous loop
every few minutes from April 2007 through January 2008. Id. at [] 26, 29. The other
advertisement was a pictorial version of the guitar-toting M&M which was likewise
dressed to represent The Naked Cowboy, and which bore the designation "Peanut
Cowboy" on its cowboy hat. Id. at 0x00A7 30. In running these ads, Mars plainly endeavored
to sell its candy through the use of The Naked Cowboy's trademarked persona and
celebrity good will. Id. at { 25. Mars has neither compensated The Naked Cowboy for
the use of his likeness in these commercial advertisements, nor did Mars seek his
permission to use same. Id.

The Naked Cowboy's Complaint sets forth claims for (a) trademark infringement

on the theory of false endorsement; and (b) a violation of his New York statutory right of
Case 1:08-cv-01330-DC Document14 ~ Filed 04/28/2008 Page 4 of 17

publicity. Id. at {| 40-51. In its Answer, Mars acknowledges that it ran the foregoing
advertisements and that it featured an M&M dressed in the above-described "cowboy
attire." Answer, {{ 26, 30. Mars further admits that it did not compensate The Naked
Cowboy for its appropriation of his persona, nor did Mars obtain any licenses or rights
for same. Id. at 0x00A7 25. Mars does, however, set forth two affirmative defenses which are

the subject of this motion: parody and fair use. Id. at "Eight Affirmative Defense" and

 

"Tenth Affirmative Defense." It is argued below that neither defense is viable as a matter

of law with respect to either of The Naked Cowboy's causes of action.!

Tl. ARGUMENT

A. Legal Standard

Under Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(), "[uJpon motion made by a party within 20 days after
service of the pleading upon the party... the court may order stricken from any pleading
any insufficient defense... ." In Copyright.net Music Publishing LLC v. MP3.com, 256
F, Supp. 2d 214 (S.D.N.Y. 2003), the plaintiff music publisher filed motions pursuant to
Rule 12(f) to strike five of the defendant infringer's affirmative defenses, including its
"fair use" defense. Ruling that the defendant was collaterally estopped from asserting its
fair use defense, the Court granted the motion and struck same from the pleading. Id. at
217. In this case, as discussed below, there is an equally compelling reason to conclude
that the fair use and parody defenses are "insufficient." See also Sony Financial Services,

LLC vy. Multi Video Group, Ltd., 2003 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 22248 at *22, No. 03-cv-1730

 

' Mars' "Ninth Affirmative Defense" states the Complaint is barred by the "free speech provisions
of First Amendment." Although this defense was not separately referenced in The Naked Cowboy's pre-
Motion correspondence to the Court, it appears to be a restatement of-and is actually the source of-the

defenses of fair use and parody. See Cliffs Notes, Inc. v. Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group, 886
F.2d 490, 493 (2d Cir. 1989) ("parody is a form of artistic expression, protected by the First Amendment'),
Case 1:08-cv-01330-DC Document14 Filed 04/28/2008 Page 5 of 17

(S.D.N.Y. Dec. 12, 2003) (striking affirmative defense on the ground of legal
insufficiency and observing that "[t]he standard for a motion to strike an affirmative
defense under Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(f) is a `mirror image' of the rule governing a motion to

dismiss for failure to state a claim").

B. The Infringing Advertisements Cannot Constitute Valid Parody as a
Matter of Law

In its Answer and Affirmative Defenses, Mars strains mightily to straddle two
contradictory positions. Mars refuses to admit that it its advertisements were intended to
conjure up the well-known image and celebrity persona of The Naked Cowboy, averring
that the animated M&Ms were merely dressed up in "cowboy attire." Answer, {ff 26,
307 By way of affirmative defense, however, Mars asserts that its advertisements
constitute a parody of The Naked Cowboy, a position which necessitates an
acknowledgment that the challenged activity constitutes a use-albeit an alleged fair

use-of the trademark in question. See Cliffs Notes, Inc. v. Bantam Doubleday Dell

 

Publishing Group, 886 F.2d 490, 494 (2d Cir. 1989) ("the keystone of parody is
imitation"); MasterCard Int'l Inc. v. Nader 2000 Primary Comm.., Inc., 70 U.S.P.Q.2D
(BNA) 1046, 2004 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 3644 at *39 (S.D.N.Y. Mar. 8, 2004) ("[a] parody is
characterized by an attempt to mimic an original, expressive, and usually famous work').
For the purposes of this Motion, The Naked Cowboy will presume that Mars's evasive
denials have not vitiated its parody defense which requires, first and foremost, an

acknowledgement of mimicry.

 

? In making this pleading, Mars fails to explain how white underwear briefs qualify as "cowboy
attire."
Case 1:08-cv-01330-DC Document14 - Filed 04/28/2008 Page 6 of 17

1. The Parody Defense Has Limited Application in a Commercial
Context

It is well-recognized that a free speech or "fair use" defense such as parody is
viable only where the use of another's mark is "to communicate an idea rather than to
market a product." Gilson on Trademarks, 0x00A7 11.08[4][]] (2007). While the law has
recognized the parody defense in certain commercial settings, the requirement that a valid
parody must embody an expressive idea or satirical message has persisted unabated. This
section discusses, in general fashion, the limited applicability of the parody doctrine
when raised as a defense to a commercial use of a trademark.

In Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., 510 U.S. 569, 579-94 (1994), the
Supreme Court set forth the contours of parody as a "fair use" defense to copyright
infringement. In so doing, the Court held that a rap song which spoofed the 1960s rock
and roll hit "Oh Pretty Woman" was a valid parody given that it communicated satirical
and expressive ideas. In the wake of this decision, the courts of this Circuit have relied
upon the Court's explication of the parody defense when asserted against trademark

claims such as the one alleged herein. See e.g. Harley-Davidson, Inc. v. Grottanelli, 164

 

F.3d 806 (2d Cir. 1999) (discussed below).

The Court in Campbell made clear that a true parody must contain or consist of a
message, or some form of "commentary," with regard to the work (or trademark)
allegedly being lampooned. The Court began its discussion with a dictionary definition
of parody as a "literary or artistic work that imitates the characteristic style of an author
or a work for comic effect or ridicule." 510 U.S. at 580 (quoting American Heritage
Dictionary 1317 (3d ed. 1992)). Noting that a true parody embodies some degree of

commentary and expressive idea, the Court added that "[llike less ostensibly humorous
Case 1:08-cv-01330-DC Document14 - Filed 04/28/2008 Page 7 of 17

forms of criticism, [parody] provides social benefit, by shedding light on an earlier work,
and, in the process, creating a new one." Id. at 579. The Court then turned to the
applicability of the parody defense in a commercial context, observing as follows:

[T]he heart of any parodist's claim to quote from existing material is the
use of some elements of a prior author's composition to create a new one
that, at least in part, comments on that author's works. [citing MCA, Inc.
v. Wilson, 677 F.2d 180, 185 (2d Cir. 1981)]. If, on the contrary, the
commentary has no critical bearing on the substance or style of the
original composition, which the alleged infringer merely uses to get
attention or to avoid the drudgery in working up something fresh, the
claim to fairness in borrowing from another's work diminishes
accordingly (if it does not vanish), and other factors, like the extent of its
commerciality, loom larger.

 

Relying on these principles, the Campbell Court held that the rap version of the
Roy Orbison classic was a valid parody as it was an artistic work which conveyed an
obvious and substantive satirical message. While declining to evaluate the content of the
message, the Court's ruling turned on the fact that there was a readily ascertainable social
message in both the rap lyrics as well as in the style of performance. The Court's
holding, therefore, did not alter the long-established requirement that a valid parody must
communicate an expressive idea, particularly where the alleged parodist places its parody
in commerce. Further, as is discussed in greater detail in 0x00A7 II-B-2, infra, the Campbell
decision is consistent with a well-settled distinction between a protected parody which is,
itself, the commercial product (e.g., a rap song, a Saturday Night Live skit) and
unprotected mimicry used for the purpose of promoting a completely unrelated product
(such as candy).

The courts of this circuit, both before and after Campbell, have recognized the

difference between a substantive parody on the one hand, and the commercial
Case 1:08-cv-01330-DC Document14 ~ Filed 04/28/2008 Page 8 of 17

appropriation of another's trademark on the other. In Cliffs Notes, Inc. v. Bantam

 

Doubleday Dell Publishing Group, 886 F.2d 490, 495 (2d Cir. 1989), the Court observed
that a parody exists only where "expression, and not commercial exploitation of another's
trademark, is the primary intent." This distinction was reinforced by the Campbell
decision's requirement that in order to be expressive, a parody must communicate a

message beyond a mere attempt to sell something. See also Tin Pan Apple, Inc. v. Miller

 

Brewing co., Inc., 737 F. Supp. 826 (S.D.N.Y. 1990) ("there is ample authority for the
proposition that appropriation of copyrighted [or trademarked] material solely for
personal profit, unrelieved by any creative purpose, cannot constitute parody as a matter
of law").

Among the decisions which followed and applied Campbell, the Second Circuit's
opinion in Harley-Davidson, Inc., supra, is particularly instructive. The plaintiff therein,
a well-known manufacturer of motorcycles, brought suit under the Lanham Act against a
motorcycle repair shop which had attempted a parodic use of the plaintiffs logo.
Relying on Campbell's elucidation of the limits of the parody defense in the copyright
context, the Court held that the use of the mark did not amount to parody as a matter of
law. 164 F.3d at 813. It reasoned as follows:

[the defendant's] mark makes no comment on Harley's mark; it simply

uses it somewhat humorously to promote his own products and services,
which is not a permitted trademark parody use.

In view of this post-Campbell holding by the Court of Appeals, it is clear that a
parodic use of another's trademark for a purely commercial purpose, unmitigated by any

expressive commentary, still cannot serve a valid defense to an infringement claim. In
Case 1:08-cv-01330-DC Document14 Filed 04/28/2008 Page 9 of 17

the present case, it is plain from the pleadings that Mars' use of The Naked Cowboy's
trademarked image does not amount to the conveyance of an expressive idea and cannot
conceivably be viewed as offering substantive commentary on the mark in question. The
alleged parodic advertisement by Mars simply brooks no comparison with the patently
satirical rap song addressed in Campbell. Mars' use of The Naked Cowboy's mark is far
more akin to the impermissible marketing use in Harley-Davidson which the Court
rejected as a matter of law. Like the defendant who attempted to spoof the Harley logo to
promote its product, Mars' use is nothing more than an advertisement whose only
reasonably perceivable message is an invitation to the public to purchase its candy. Such
an unadulterated commercial use cannot possibly enjoy the Constitutionally-premised fair

use defense of parody.

2. Use of Another's Trademark or Celebrity Likeness for the
Purpose of Selling an Unrelated Product Does Not Qualify as
Parody
As noted above, the most directly analogous authority concerning the alleged

parodic use of another's mark in a commercial setting consists of a series of cases where
the spoof was utilized in connection with the sale of an unrelated consumer product. The
decisions have uniformly held that where the parody itself is not the product, but is
merely used to market something else, it is not a valid parody under the law. Thus, even
if the use could be deemed colloquially as a parody, it is not shielded from liability under
the Lanham Act. The rationale is that a parody which bears no relation to the product it

advertises cannot conceivably contain a substantive message or expressive idea with

respect to the product.
Case 1:08-cv-01330-DC Document14 ~ Filed 04/28/2008 Page 10 of 17

In Tin Pan Apple, Inc. v. Miller Brewing co., Inc., 737 F. Supp. 826 (S.D.N.Y.
1990), arap musical group brought claims for both copyright and trademark infringement
against a defendant beer company and its ad agency. The claims arose out of an
advertisement which featured a spoof of the members of the rap group by way of actors
dressed to mimic the plaintiffs and their rap style. In denying the defendants' bid for a
dismissal of the claims, the Court held that the spoof could not constitute a parody as a
matter of law. Id. at 832-33. In reaching this result, the Court reasoned that if the alleged
parody is used solely in connection with an advertisement to sell a separate unrelated
product, it cannot constitute a fair use. Id. at 832. Significantly, the Court observed that
the statutory fair use factors need not even be reached where the alleged parody appears
ina commercial to sell an unrelated product, noting that the "[t]he commercial's use is
entirely for profit: to sell beer." Id. at 832. The applicability of this holding to the
present case could not be more direct. While Miller Brewing and its ad agency sought to
sell beer by spoofing musical celebrities, Mars's spoof of The Naked Cowboy appears in
an ad to sell candy.

The balance of the Tin Pan Apple opinion provides a lengthy discussion of the
Second Circuit's view of the parody defense in the context of commercial advertising.
Again, the dispositive distinction drawn by the Court (and the authority cited therein) is a
distinction between a parody which is the product itself (such as a "Weird Al" Yankovich
song or a Saturday Night Live skit) and one which is merely used to sell the defendant's

product. The Court relied explicitly on this distinction in D.C. Comics, Inc. v. Crazy

 

Eddie, Inc., 205 U.S.P.Q. (BNA) 1177 (S.D.N.Y. 1979), where a defendant electronics

 

retailer aired a commercial on local television channels featuring a spoof of a Superman

10
