UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA
TAMPA DIVISION
BARN LIGHT ELECTRIC COMPANY, LLC,
a Florida limited liability company,
Plaintiff,
v.
BARNLIGHT ORIGINALS, INC., a
Nevada corporation; HI-LITE
MANUFACTURING
COMPANY, INC., a
California corporation; and
JEFFREY L. OHAI, an
individual California Resident,
Defendants.
/

CASE NO. 8:14-cv-01955-MSS-AEP

BARNLIGHT ORIGINALS, INC., a
Nevada corporation; and HI-LITE
MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
INC., a California corporation,
Counterclaim Plaintiffs,
v.
BARN LIGHT ELECTRIC COMPANY, LLC,
a Florida limited liability company,
Counterclaim Defendants,
and
BRYAN AND DONNA SCOTT, individual
Florida Residents,
Third-Party Defendants.
/

1

PLAINTIFF BARN LIGHT ELECTRIC COMPANY, LLC’S
EXPEDITED THIRD MOTION TO COMPEL
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND FOR DISCOVERY SANCTIONS 1
Pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(g)(3) and 37(b)(2), the Local Rules of the
United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida 3.04(a), 3.05 and 3.09 (the “Local
Rules”) and the Discovery Rules of the Middle District of Florida, Rev. June 5, 2015 (the
“Discovery Rules”), Plaintiff, Barn Light Electric Company, LLC (“Barn Light Electric” or
“Plaintiff”), joined by Bryan Scott and Donna Scott (the “Scotts”), by and through their
undersigned counsel, hereby respectfully moves this Court on an expedited basis for an order
compelling Barnlight Originals, Inc. (“Barnlight Originals”), Hi-Lite Manufacturing Company,
Inc. (“Hi-Lite”), and Jeffrey L. Ohai (“Ohai”) (collectively, “Defendants”) to produce documents
and respond to interrogatories, as well as imposing sanctions on Defendants and awarding
Plaintiff expenses, including attorney’s fees and costs.
I.

INTRODUCTION
Despite numerous telephone conferences, an in-person meeting, as suggested by this

Court, letters, e-mails, hearings, and even this Court’s Order directing Defendants to complete its
document production (Dkt. 95), Defendants still refuse to produce documents and discovery
responses. For example, Defendants categorically refuse to provide any financial documents
related to Hi-Lite, a defendant and counterclaim plaintiff in this case. Such documents are
crucial to the damages theories advanced in Plaintiff’s affirmative claims and Defendants’ own
counterclaims. Defendants’ refusal to produce any Hi-Lite financial documents has, and
continues to, prevent Plaintiff’s damages expert from conducting the orderly and full damages
analyses required for the numerous counts in suit.

1 Plaintiff, Barn Light Electric Company, LLC, files this motion and exhibits thereto as a correction to its previously
filed motion and exhibits thereto [Document No. 108].

2

Defendants have also harmed Plaintiff by over-producing a mountain of documents so
improperly reviewed that it includes more than 10 megabytes of hardcore pornography and
nearly 40,000 pages of incomprehensible computer code and Wingdings. To make matters
worse, Defendants have ignored this Court’s Protective Order (Dkt. 40) governing the specific
criteria that the parties must use in classifying documents, and instead decided it would suffice to
“batch” classify as “Highly Confidential/Attorney’s Eyes Only” all documents associated with
any of Defendants’ employees, distributors and vendors. Defendants’ process yielded
approximately 40,000 pages (27% of Defendant’s produced documents) classified as “Highly
Confidential/Attorney’s Eyes Only.” In what is perhaps the most egregious example of
Defendants misclassification of documents, Defendants have produced documents containing
hardcore pornography with the classification “Highly Confidential/Attorney’s Eyes Only.”
Defendants’ strategy of stonewalling the production of key documents while dumping
improperly reviewed and classified documents on Plaintiff has, and continues to, seriously harm
Plaintiff. First, Plaintiff cannot prepare its expert reports without financial data and other critical
documents from Defendants. Second, Defendants have mounted upon Plaintiff, layer upon layer
of unnecessary expense, delay and inefficiency to an already sizeable litigation burden.
Pursuant to this Court’s direction, Plaintiff has made multiple attempts to meet and confer
with Defendants in person and via telephone in an effort to fully resolve this discovery impasse
and avoid seeking the further assistance of this Court. However, even after an in person meeting
between counsel for the parties, Plaintiff’s attempts have been met with empty promises, a
reluctance to commit to dates certain for the long overdue production of documents responsive to
Plaintiff’s discovery requests, and additional adversarial gamesmanship by Defendants. Given
the impending expert report and discovery deadlines in this case, Plaintiff is, once again, left

3

with no choice but to seek the assistance of this Court in compelling Defendant’s production of
documents and seeking sanctions to make Plaintiff whole and in an effort to deter Defendants
continued discovery violations.
Plaintiff urges this Court to exercise its discretion and impose sanctions against
Defendants pursuant to Federal Rules of Civil Procedure Rules 26(g)(3) and 37(b)(2) issuing an
order: (i) directing Defendants to provide compensation for Plaintiff’s expenses, including
attorneys’ fees, in bringing Defendants into compliance with this Court’s Discovery Order (Dkt.
95) and for its previously filed motions to compel (Dkts. 65 & 91) 2; (ii) directing Defendants to
complete production of all documents responsive to Plaintiff’s long overdue First, Second, Third
and Fourth Requests for Production of Documents, including the financial information Plaintiff’s
have requested relating to both Hi-Lite and Barnlight Originals, by a date certain 3; (iii) directing
Defendants to provide compensation for Plaintiff’s expenses, including attorneys’ fees,
associated with the unnecessary and unduly burdensome review of approximately forty thousand
(40,000) pages of irrelevant and unresponsive documents including pornography, pages of
nonsensical font type and hyper text machine language (“HTML”) code; and (iv) precluding
and/or striking Defendants’ Expert Reports in this matter due to Defendants’ failure to comply
with this Court’s Discovery Order (Dkt. 95) and to remedy the prejudice and inequity caused to

2 In its Discovery Order, this Court held that attorney’s fees and costs were denied without prejudice. (“Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees and costs in association with the filing of this motion is denied without prejudice,
however.”) Dkt. 95, FN1. Given Defendants failure to fully comply with this Court’s Order, Plaintiff hereby
renews its request for attorney’s fees and costs associated with its motion to compel pursuant to Rule 37.
3 Attached hereto as Exhibit A (Exhibits to this Motion are identified herein as “Ex._”) is Plaintiff’s discovery
tracking chart which includes Plaintiff’s good faith assessment of the status of Defendant’s production in response to
Plaintiff’s First, Second, Third and Fourth Requests for Production of Documents. Because Defendants have not
identified the specific requests for which it has not yet produced documents or specific Bates Ranges for documents
it has already produced as responsive to Plaintiff’s specific Requests, the production status with regard to certain
specific Requests remains unclear. Accordingly, the status of such requests have been marked as “unidentified” in
the attached discovery tracking chart.

4

Plaintiff, Counterclaim-Defendants’ and Third-Party Defendants’ resulting from Defendants’
refusal to produce critical discovery required for the development of Plaintiff’s expert reports.
Additionally, given the impending expert report deadline in this case, and as a sanction
for Defendants’ abusive and unfounded assertion that Hi-Lite’s financial information is not
subject to discovery, this Court should enter an order requiring Defendants to allow immediate
access to its financial databases and business records by Plaintiff’s third party vendor for copying
and also deeming that Defendants have waived any privilege that might otherwise excuse it from
producing documents responsive to Plaintiff’s outstanding and long overdue discovery requests.
II.

FACTUAL BACKGROUND
1.

On August 14, 2014, Plaintiff filed its complaint.

2.

On October 10, 2014, Defendant filed its Answer.

3.

On November 19, 2014, this Court entered its Case Management and Scheduling
Order.

4.

On April 10, 2015, Alejandro J. Fernandez mailed a letter to Michael J. Colitz III,
Esq., and Stephen G. Anderson, Ph.D., Esq., a letter memorializing the
stipulations reached by the parties as to certain procedures they would each follow
with regard to the collection and production of documents in this matter. With
regard to the use of search terms to identify documents for production, the letter
sent to Defendant’s counsel relayed the following:
Regarding the use of search terms in connection with production,
Defendants’ obligations to produce documents are exclusively
governed by our requests for production, not a list of search terms.
Without limiting or eliminating any aspect of our requests for
production or interrogatories, searches of Defendants’
electronically stored documents for the terms in Schedule 1 may
facilitate identification of a number of documents sought in our
requests for production.
5

See Ex. B at ¶4. 4
5.

On July 17, 2015, Alejandro J. Fernandez transmitted an electronic mail
correspondence Michael J. Colitz III, Esq., and Stephen G. Anderson, Ph.D., Esq.,
relating to Plaintiff’s demand that Defendants withdraw their Motion to Compel
for failure to comply with Local Rule 3.01(g). Defendants subsequently withdrew
their motion. See Ex. C.

6.

On July 27, 2015, Alejandro J. Fernandez transmitted an electronic mail
correspondence to Michael J. Colitz III, Esq., and Stephen G. Anderson, Ph.D.,
Esq., relating to Plaintiff’s demand that Defendants complete production as
ordered by the Court (Dkt. 95) and requesting that Defendants conduct a review
of all documents produced in order to withdraw all non-responsive and irrelevant
documents, including documents containing pornography, thousands of pages of
unreadable and irrelevant Wingdings font type and in excess of thirty six thousand
five hundred (“36,500”) non-responsive pages of HTML code. See Ex. D.

7.

On July 28, 2015, Michael J. Colitz III, Esq., sent a letter correspondence to
Alejandro J. Fernandez relating to: (i) Defendants exclusive use of keywords for
the wholesale collection and production of documents without review, (ii)
Defendants’ demand that Plaintiff identify all documents for which it seeks
confidentiality reclassifications, and (iii) further requesting that Plaintiff identify
all categories of documents included in Plaintiff’s propounded written discovery
requests for which documents have not yet been produced. See Ex. E.

8.

On July 28, 2015, Alejandro J. Fernandez transmitted

an electronic mail

4 Attached hereto as Exhibits B through J are true and correct copies of correspondence between Plaintiff’s counsel
and Defendants’ counsel relevant to the discovery matters discussed herein.

6

correspondence Michael J. Colitz III, Esq., and Stephen G. Anderson, Ph.D., Esq.,
relating to Defendants failure to respond to correspondence from Mr. Fernandez
and Mr. Fernandez’s attempted telephone calls and voicemail to Mr. Colitz,
further informing counsel for Defendants that, having received no response from
Defendants, Plaintiff contacted the Court to request a hearing as expressly
instructed by Judge Porcelli in the Court’s Order (Dkt. 95). See Ex. F.
9.

On July 30, 2015, Stephen G. Anderson, Ph.D., Esq., transmitted an electronic
mail correspondence to Alejandro J. Fernandez relating to Defendants use of
search terms to identify, collect and blindly produce documents without review
and further claiming all documents produced were, therefore, relevant over
Plaintiff’s objections that a majority of said document production included
pornography and clearly irrelevant and non-responsive documents (i.e., in excess
of 100 explicit pornographic images, over 36,500 pages of HTML code, 2,154
pages of Wing Ding font type). See Ex. G.

10.

On July 31, 2015, Michael J. Colitz III, Esq., sent a letter correspondence to
Alejandro J. Fernandez relating to alleged deficiencies in Plaintiff’s production.
See Ex. H.

11.

On July 31, 2015, Alejandro J. Fernandez transmitted an electronic mail
correspondence to Michael J. Colitz III, Esq., and Stephen G. Anderson, Ph.D.,
Esq., memorializing the stipulation reached between the parties relating to the
necessity to file a joint motion requesting modification of the Case Management
and Scheduling Order in this matter and further memorializing the parties’ agreed
upon dates for Defendants’ production of documents responsive to Plaintiff’s

7

Second, Third and Fourth Requests for Production of Documents on August 7,
2015 and August 14, 2015. See Ex. I.
12.

On August 11, 2015, Michael J. Colitz III, Esq., sent a letter correspondence to
Alejandro J. Fernandez relating to: (i) Defendants’ assertion that it relied on
“keyword searches” to produce its documents without review for relevancy or
responsiveness, (ii) Defendants’ offer to withdraw unresponsive documents from
their prior productions as identified by Bates Numbers, (iii) Defendants’ request
that Plaintiff conduct its own review of Defendants’ production and identify any
specific documents that may require reclassification, and (iv) Defendants’ request
that Plaintiff identify categories of documents missing from Defendants’
production. See Ex. J.

13.

On May 28, 2015, this Court held a hearing on Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Production of Documents (Dkt. 83) before Honorable Anthony E. Porcelli, United
States Magistrate Judge. See Transcript, attached as Ex. K.

14.

On June 29, 2015, this Court held a hearing on Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Production of Documents (Dkt. 94) before Honorable Anthony E. Porcelli, United
States Magistrate Judge. See Transcript, attached as Ex. L.

15.

On June 29, 2015, this Court entered its Order (Dkt. 95) (“Discovery Order”)
directing that “[w]ithin fourteen (14) days of the date of this Order, Defendants
shall produce all outstanding discovery responsive to the requests outlined in the
motion. . . . [w]ithin thirty (30) days of the date of this Order, Defendants produce
all outstanding discovery relating to the ‘477 Patent, as detailed in Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Discovery Responses (Doc. 65).” Dkt. 95.

8

16.

On July 13, 2015, Defendants produced 61,556 pages to Plaintiffs in response to
this Court’s Discovery Order (Dkt. 95) directing Defendants to complete
discovery on all requests contained in Plaintiff’s First Requests for Production of
Documents on or before this date. Of the 61,556 pages produced, over 36,500
pages consisted of unresponsive and irrelevant computer code and 2,154 pages of
Wingdings font type.

17.

On July 29, 2015, Defendants produced a total of 929 pages of documents in
response this Court’s Discovery Order (Dkt. 95) directing Defendants to complete
discovery on the ‘477 Patent on or before this date.

18.

Under the current Case Management and Scheduling Order (Dkt. 106), Expert
Reports are due on September 18, 2015 with Rebuttal Expert Reports due on
October 16, 2015.

19.

Under the current case Management and Scheduling Order (Dkt. 106), the
Discovery Deadline in this case is October 26, 2015.

III.

STANDARD OF LAW
A.

Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26.

Rule 26 imposes a duty on parties to comply with disclosure deadlines and “grants them
no right to produce information in a belated fashion.” Mobile Shelter Sys. USA, Inc. v. Grate
Pallet Solutions, LLC, 845 F. Supp. 2d 1241, 1250 (M.D. Fla. 2012) aff'd, 505 F. App'x 928
(11th Cir. 2013)(striking a party’s expert report due to its failure to timely disclose discovery).
Rule 26(g) was “designed to curb discovery abuse by explicitly encouraging the
imposition of sanctions.” Malautea v. Suzuki Motor Co., 987 F.2d 1536, 1545 (11th Cir. 1993)
(citing Fed.R.Civ.P. 26(g) advisory committee’s notes (1983 Amendment)). Rule 26(g) requires

9

an attorney to sign “every request for discovery or response or objection thereto.” Id. An
attorney’s signature certifies, in relevant part, “that the signer has read the request, response, or
objection, and that to the best of the signer’s ... belief formed after a reasonable inquiry it is ...
not interposed for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or
needless increase in the cost of litigation....” Id. If a certification is made in violation of Rule
26(g), “the court ... shall impose upon the person who made the certification, the party on whose
behalf the request, response, or objection is made, or both, an appropriate sanction, which may
include an order to pay the reasonable expenses incurred because of the violation, including a
reasonable attorney’s fee.” Id.; See also, In re Seroquel Products Liab. Litig., 244 F.R.D. 650,
657 (M.D. Fla. 2007) (holding defendants and their counsel jointly and severally responsible for
“the Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs associated with th[e] protracted and costly discovery
period” because defendants answered and objected to interrogatories with the improper purpose
of “caus [ing] unnecessary delay, increas[ing] the cost of litigation for the Plaintiff, and caus[ing]
the time for discovery to end before the Plaintiff had obtained the discovery materials [] needed
to litigate th[e] case.”).
B.

Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37.

Rule 37 governs a party’s failure to make a proper disclosure or cooperate in discovery.
Fed.R.Civ.P. 37. Rule 37 is enforced in this district. See Discovery Rules, at ¶ E(3). “Further, if
a Court order is obtained compelling discovery, unexcused failure to comply with such an order
is treated by the Court with special gravity and disfavor.” Id. “For purposes of Rule 37, an
incomplete response is to be treated as a failure to respond.” In re Seroquel Products Liab.
Litig., 244 F.R.D. 650, 655 (M.D. Fla. 2007) (citing Fed.R.Civ.P. 37(a)(3)).

10

The Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals and district courts in the Middle District of
Florida have repeatedly held that “[i]n making the determination of whether to impose sanctions,
Rule 37(b)(2) does not require a showing of willfulness or bad faith as a prerequisite to the
imposition of sanctions upon a party.” In re Seroquel Products Liab. Litig., 244 F.R.D. 650, 656
(M.D. Fla. 2007) citing Melendez v. Ill. Bell Tel. Co., 79 F.3d 661, 671 (7th Cir.1996) (“Bad
faith . . . is not required for a district court to sanction a party for discovery abuses. Sanctions are
proper upon a finding of willfulness, bad faith, or fault on the part of the non-complying
litigant.”). Rule 37 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure authorizes wide ranging sanctions
against a party that “fails to obey an order to provide or permit discovery.” Fed.R.Civ.P.
37(b)(2)(A) (i-vii); See Scipione v. Advance Stores Co., 294 F.R.D. 659, 667-68 (M.D. Fla.
2013) (awarding expenses and attorney’s fees pursuant to Rule 37 relating to costs related to
seeking information not included in discovery responses, motions to compel and motions for
sanctions); U & I Corp. v. Advanced Med. Design, Inc., 251 F.R.D. 667, 677 (M.D. Fla.
2008)(awarding retroactive sanctions and fees for numerous motions to compel necessitated by
the discovery violations of the nonmovant throughout the litigation); See also, Stuart I. Levin &
Assocs., P.A. v. Rogers, 156 F.3d 1135, 1140 (11th Cir. 1998) (awarding extensive attorney’s
fees and costs); Gratton v. Great Am. Commc'ns, 178 F.3d 1373, 1374 (11th Cir.1999) (per
curiam) (dismissing the case as a Rule 37 sanction).
Rule 37(b)(2) also permits courts to preclude a party who “fails to obey an order to
provide or permit discovery” from “supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.”
Fed.R.Civ.P. 37(b)(2)(A)(ii). In addition to preclusion orders, Rule 37 also provides that a court
“must, after giving an opportunity to be heard, require the party ... whose conduct necessitated
the motion or the party or attorney advising such conduct or both of them to pay the reasonable

11

expenses, including attorney’s fees” unless the court finds “the movant filed the motion before
attempting in good faith to obtain the disclosure or discovery without court action,” that the
failure was “substantially justified” or that “other circumstances make an award of expenses
unjust.” Fed.R.Civ.P. 37(a)(5)(A)(i-iii). “Rule 37 ‘places the burden on the disobedient party to
avoid expenses by showing that his failure is justified or that special circumstances make an
award of expenses unjust.’” Bray & Gillespie Mgmt. LLC v. Lexington Ins. Co., 259 F.R.D. 591,
610 (M.D. Fla. 2009)(rejecting defendant’s argument that it was substantially justified in failing
to timely produce documents in violation of a discovery order from the Court) citing Hawkins v.
Fulton County, 96 F.R.D. 416, 421 (N.D.Ga.1982) (quoting Fed.R.Civ.P. 37 Advisory Comm.
Notes (1970)).
“Rule 37 sanctions are imposed not only to prevent unfair prejudice to the litigants but
also to insure the integrity of the discovery process.” U & I Corp. v. Advanced Med. Design,
Inc., 251 F.R.D. 667, 674 (M.D. Fla. 2008) citing Aztec Steel Co. v. Fla. Steel Corp., 691 F.2d
480, 482 (11th Cir.1982). “The most severe spectrum of sanctions must be available to district
courts not merely to penalize those whose conduct may be deemed to warrant such a sanction,
but to deter those who might be tempted to such conduct in the absence of such a deterrent.”
National Hockey League v. Metro. Hockey Club, Inc., 427 U.S. 639, 643 (1976).
C.

The Court’s Inherent Powers to Impose Sanctions.

Courts may also invoke their inherent powers to impose sanctions for abuse of the
discovery process or failing to obey a court order. Chambers v. Nasco, Inc., 501 U.S. 32 (1991).
Courts in the Eleventh Circuit have found bad faith “where a party or attorney knowingly or
recklessly . . . delays or disrupts the litigation, or hampers the enforcement of a court order.”
Qantum Communications Corp. v. Star Broadcasting, Inc., 473 F. Supp. 2d 1249, 1269 (S.D.

12

Fla. 2007) (citing Malautea v. Suzuki Motor Co. Ltd., 987 F.2d 1536, 1545–46 (11th Cir.1993)
(affirming district court's award of default judgment for violation of discovery orders, award of
attorney's fees and costs, and additional fines under the court's inherent powers)). “Bad faith can
be predicated upon knowing or reckless conduct.” Scipione v. Advance Stores Co., 294 F.R.D.
659, 664 (M.D. Fla. 2013).
III.

ARGUMENT
Pursuant to Local Rule 3.04(a), Barn Light Electric’s interrogatories and requests with

Defendants’ responses are set forth below, followed by a statement of the reasons for granting
this motion.5
PLAINTIFF'S FIRST SET OF INTERROGATORIES
INTERROGATORY #2: As to each product promoted, sold, or distributed in connection with
the BARNLIGHT ORIGINALS marks, please provide the following information:
a. the number of units sold, and to whom the units were sold;
b. the sales prices of each unit;
c. the gross income received from sales of these units;
d. the net income received from sales of these units;
e. the profits received from sales of these unites; and f. an itemized list of the fixed and variable
costs associated with the manufacture, production, marketing, adve1iising, and selling of these
units. A complete response to this interrogato1y will identify each entity that promotes, sells, or
offers for sells Defendants' products and include all of the information in (a) through (f) above.

RESPONSE: Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 33(d), Barnlight Originals will provide documents, to
the extent any exist, at a mutually agreeable time and place from which the information can be
gathered.
PLAINTIFF’S SECOND SET OF INTERROGATORIES
INTERROGATORY NO. 15: Please state Hi-Lite’s total annual volume of sales of all Hi-Lite
products (including, but not limited to, products sold under any mark or brand that Hi-Lite
claims to own, including Barnlight Originals) to all of its purchasers (including, but not limited
to, Barn Light Electric) in each year from 2004 through 2015 (to date), in both total annual
revenues and total unit sold. In responding to this interrogatory, please specify how much of the
total annual revenues and total annual units sold in each year was attributable to sales of
products sold under a given brand or mark that Hi-Lite claims to own, including Barnlight
Originals.
5 In the interest of efficiency and economy of space, additional overlapping requests covered by the scope of
broader requests as contained herein have been excluded from the body of this motion.

13

RESPONSE TO INTERROGATORY NO. 15: Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 33(b)(4),
Defendants object to this request as being irrelevant, overly broad, burdensome, not reasonably
calculated to lead to admissible evidence, vague, and ambiguous. Hi-Lite has never owned
Barnlight Originals.
FIRST SET OF REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND THINGS
REQUEST #14
Documents sufficient to identify the annual dollar and unit volumes of sales for each good
and/or service sold in connection with the BARNLIGHT ORIGINALS marks since such
goods and/or services were introduced.
RESPONSE:
Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b), Defendants object to this request as being overly broad,
unduly burdensome, vague and ambiguous. Subject to the foregoing general and specific
objections, Barnlight Originals will produce responsive, non-privileged documents, to the
extent any exist, at a mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST #46
All documents relating to the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE:
Defendants object to this request pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b) in view of Defendants’
pending Motion to Dismiss Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1) [Dkt. 64]. Defendants further
object on the basis that the Court’s Order [Dkt. 84] imposing the stay of all discovery
relating to the ‘477 Patent should have been maintained. In view of the covenants provided to
the Plaintiff in this matter, Defendants also object to this request as seeking irrelevant
information and information that is not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence.
Defendants also object to the request as being overly broad by seeking “all documents,”
unduly burdensome, not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, and irrelevant
to the extent it relates to Barnlight Originals. Defendants further object to this request to the
extent that it seeks information protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work product
doctrine. Subject to the foregoing general and specific objections, Defendants will produce
responsive, non-privileged documents, to the extent any exist that have not previously
been produced, at a mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST #47
All documents mentioning or discussing the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REQUEST #48
All documents mentioning or discussing the ownership of the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REQUEST #51
All documents mentioning or discussing any lost profits allegedly caused by Barn Light
Electric' s alleged infringement of the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME AS RESPONSE TO REQUEST #46]
REQUEST #54
All documents that were used, referenced or considered in the preparation or prosecution of
the application that led to the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE:
Defendants object to this request pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b) in view of Defendants’
14

pending Motion to Dismiss Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1) [Dkt. 64]. Defendants further
object on the basis that the Court’s Order [Dkt. 84] imposing the stay of all discovery
relating to the ‘477 Patent should have been maintained. In view of the covenants provided to
the Plaintiff in this matter, Defendants also object to this request as seeking irrelevant
information and information that is not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence.
Defendants also object to the request as being overly broad by seeking “all documents,”
unduly burdensome, not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, vague and
ambiguous regarding documents “used,” and irrelevant to the extent it relates to Barnlight
Originals. Defendants further object to this request to the extent that it seeks information
protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work product doctrine. Subject to the
foregoing general and specific objections, Defendants will produce responsive, non-privileged
documents, to the extent any exist that have not previously been produced, at a mutually
agreeable place and time.
REQUEST #57
All of the purported inventor's notebooks, workbooks, invention disclosures, notes, record
and files relating to the subject matter of the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE:
Defendants object to this request pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b) in view of Defendants’
pending Motion to Dismiss Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1) [Dkt. 64]. Defendants further
object on the basis that the Court’s Order [Dkt. 84] imposing the stay of all discovery
relating to the ‘477 Patent should have been maintained. In view of the covenants provided to
the Plaintiff in this matter, Defendants also object to this request as seeking irrelevant
information and information that is not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence.
Defendants also object to the request as being overly broad by seeking “all” documents, vague
and ambiguous to the extent it refers to a “purported inventor,” not reasonably calculated to
lead to admissible evidence, and irrelevant to the extent it relates to Hi-Lite or Barnlight
Originals. Defendants further object to this request to the extent that it seeks information
protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work product doctrine. Subject to the
foregoing general and specific objections, Defendants will produce responsive, nonprivileged documents, to the extent any exist that have not previously been produced, at a
mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST #59
All documents mentioning or discussing the conception of the subject matter of the '477
Patent.
RESPONSE:
Defendants object to this request pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b) in view of Defendants’
pending Motion to Dismiss Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1) [Dkt. 64]. Defendants further
object on the basis that the Court’s Order [Dkt. 84] imposing the stay of all discovery
relating to the ‘477 Patent should have been maintained. In view of the covenants provided to
the Plaintiff in this matter, Defendants also object to this request as seeking irrelevant
information and information that is not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence.
Defendants also object to the request as being overly broad to the extent it seeks “all
documents,” not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, and irrelevant to the
extent it relates to Hi-Lite or Barnlight Originals. Defendants further object to this request to
the extent that it seeks information protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work
product doctrine. Subject to the foregoing general and specific objections, Defendants will
15

produce responsive, non- privileged documents, to the extent any exist that have not
previously been produced, at a mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST #60
All documents mentioning or discussing the reduction to practice of the subject matter of the
'477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REQUEST #62
All documents that have ever been considered or evaluated relating to the novelty,
patentability, validity, enforceability, or scope of the claims in the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REOUEST #63
All documents mentioning, or discussing any patentability searches relating to the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REQUEST #64
All documents mentioning, or discussing the research, development or manufacture of any
commercial embodiments of the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REQUEST #66
All documents mentioning or discussing the first sale or offer for sale of any commercial
embodiment of the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME AS RESPONSE TO REQUEST #59]
REQUEST #67
Documents sufficient to show the date of the first offer for sale and sale of any commercial
embodiment of the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REQUEST #68
All documents relating to the marking or the failure to mark any commercial embodiment of
the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE:
Defendants object to this request pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b) in view of Defendants’
pending Motion to Dismiss Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1) [Dkt. 64]. Defendants further
object on the basis that the Court’s Order [Dkt. 84] imposing the stay of all discovery
relating to the ‘477 Patent should have been maintained. In view of the covenants provided to
the Plaintiff in this matter, Defendants also object to this request as seeking irrelevant
information and information that is not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence.
Defendants also object to the request as being overly broad to the extent it seeks “all
documents,” not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, vague and ambiguous
to the extent it seeks “documents relating to the marking or the failure to mark any
commercial embodiment,” and irrelevant to the extent it relates to Hi-Lite or Barnlight
Originals. Defendants further object to this request to the extent that it seeks information
protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work product doctrine. Subject to the
foregoing general and specific objections, Defendants will produce responsive, nonprivileged documents, to the extent any exist that have not previously been produced, at
a mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST #71
All documents mentioning or discussing any changes, modification or re-design of any
16

commercial embodiment of the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME AS RESPONSE TO REQUEST #59]
REQUEST #72
All documents mentioning or discussing the first date the alleged invention of the '477 Patent
was made public.
RESPONSE:
Defendants object to this request pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b) in view of Defendants’
pending Motion to Dismiss Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1) [Dkt. 64]. Defendants further
object on the basis that the Court’s Order [Dkt. 84] imposing the stay of all discovery
relating to the ‘477 Patent should have been maintained. In view of the covenants provided to
the Plaintiff in this matter, Defendants also object to this request as seeking irrelevant
information and information that is not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence.
Defendants also object to the request as being overly broad to the extent it seeks “all
documents,” not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, vague and ambiguous to
the extent it seeks documents relating to the “alleged invention” and “made public,” and
irrelevant to the extent it relates to Hi- Lite or Barnlight Originals. Defendants further object to
this request to the extent that it seeks information protected by attorney-client privilege
and/or the work product doctrine. Subject to the foregoing general and specific
objections, Defendants will produce responsive, non-privileged documents, to the extent
any exist that have not previously been produced, at a mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST #73
All documents mentioning or discussing any trade shows, conventions, expos, or meetings at
which any commercial embodiment of the '477 Patent was marketed, advertised, promoted,
presented, displayed, described, offered for sale, or sold.
RESPONSE: [SAME AS RESPONSE TO REQUEST #59]
REQUEST #74
All advertisements, marketing or promotional materials for any commercial embodiment of
the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE:
Defendants object to this request pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b) in view of Defendants’
pending Motion to Dismiss Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1) [Dkt. 64]. Defendants further
object on the basis that the Court’s Order [Dkt. 84] imposing the stay of all discovery
relating to the ‘477 Patent should have been maintained. In view of the covenants provided to
the Plaintiff in this matter, Defendants also object to this request as seeking irrelevant
information and information that is not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence.
Defendants also object to the request as being overly broad to the extent it seeks “all”
documents, not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, and irrelevant to the
extent it relates to Hi-Lite or Barnlight Originals. Defendants further object to this request to
the extent that it seeks information protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work
product doctrine. Subject to the foregoing general and specific objections, Defendants will
produce responsive, non- privileged documents, to the extent any exist that have not
previously been produced, at a mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST #75
All documents mentioning or discussing any commercial embodiment of the '477 Patent
prior to the earliest filing date to which the '477 is allegedly entitled, including but not
limited to presentations, price lists, and manuals.
17

RESPONSE: [SAME AS RESPONSE TO REQUEST #59]
REQUEST #76
Documents sufficient to show the total number of units sold per year of any commercial
embodiment of the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE:
Defendants object to this request pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b) in view of Defendants’
pending Motion to Dismiss Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1) [Dkt. 64]. Defendants further
object on the basis that the Court’s Order [Dkt. 84] imposing the stay of all discovery
relating to the ‘477 Patent should have been maintained. In view of the covenants provided
to the Plaintiff in this matter, Defendants also object to this request as seeking irrelevant
information and information that is not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence.
Defendants also object to the request as being irrelevant to the extent it relates to Barnlight
Originals. Defendants further object to this request to the extent that it seeks information
protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work product doctrine. Subject to the
foregoing general and specific objections, Defendants will produce responsive, nonprivileged documents, to the extent any exist that have not previously been produced, at a
mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST #77
All documents mentioning, or discussing any research, development, or testing activities
relating to the subject matter claimed of the '477 Patent prior to the earliest filing date to
which the '477 is allegedly entitled.
RESPONSE: [SAME AS RESPONSE TO REQUEST #59]
REQUEST #78
All documents mentioning, or discussing any communications, disclosure, showing,
sampling, display, or demonstration of the subject matter claimed in the '477 Patent prior to
the earliest filing date to which the '477 Patent is allegedly entitled.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REQUEST #79
All documents mentioning, or discussing any opinion, search, analysis, or advice relating to
the validity, inventorship, ownership, infringement, enforceability, or scope of the claims of
the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME AS RESPONSE]
REQUEST #80
All documents supporting any Defendants' contention that Barn Light Electric has allegedly
infringed the '477 Patent, including but not without limitation, all claim charts that show,
explain, or demonstrate how Bai11 Light Electric's products allegedly infringe any of the
claims of the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE:
Defendants object to this request pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b) in view of Defendants’
pending Motion to Dismiss Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1) [Dkt. 64]. Defendants further
object on the basis that the Court’s Order [Dkt. 84] imposing the stay of all discovery
relating to the ‘477 Patent should have been maintained. In view of the covenants provided to
the Plaintiff in this matter, Defendants also object to this request as seeking irrelevant
information and information that is not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence.
Defendants also object to the request as being overly broad to the extent it seeks “all
documents,” not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence because Defendants do
18

not contend Barn Light Electric has infringed the ‘477 Patent, and irrelevant to the extent
it relates to Barnlight Originals. Defendants further object to this request to the extent that
it seeks information protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work product doctrine.
Subject to the foregoing general and specific objections, Defendants will produce responsive,
non-privileged documents, to the extent any exist that have not previously been produced, at a
mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST #82
All documents mentioning, or discussing any of Defendants' lost profits allegedly caused by
Barn Light Electric' s alleged infringement of the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REQUEST #84
All documents relating to any charge of infringement or other notice of the '477 Patent
given to any third party.
RESPONSE:
Defendants object to this request pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b) in view of Defendants’
pending Motion to Dismiss Under Fed. R. Civ. P. 12(b)(1) [Dkt. 64]. Defendants further object
on the basis that the Court’s Order [Dkt. 84] imposing the stay of all discovery relating to the
‘477 Patent should have been maintained. In view of the covenants provided to the Plaintiff in
this matter, Defendants also object to this request as seeking irrelevant information and
information that is not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence. Defendants also
object to the request as being overly broad to the extent it seeks “all documents,” not reasonably
calculated to lead to admissible evidence, vague and ambiguous to the extent is seeks
information relating to a “third party,” and irrelevant to the extent it relates to a “third party,” HiLite, or Barnlight Originals. Defendants further object to this request to the extent that it seeks
information protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work product doctrine. Subject to
the foregoing general and specific objections, Defendants will produce responsive, nonprivileged documents, to the extent any exist that have not previously been produced, at a
mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST #85
All correspondence with any third party mentioning or discussing Prior Art or other evidence
of invalidity to the '477 Patent.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
THIRD SET OF REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND THINGS
REQUEST NO. 53:
All audited, prepared, and/or reviewed financial statements for Barnlight
Originals, and Hi-Lite including but not limited to: (i) Income statements / profit &
loss statements, (ii) balance sheets, and (iii) cash flow statements.
RESPONSE:
Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b), Defendants object to this request as being overly broad,
unduly burdensome, not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, vague, and
ambiguous. Defendants also object to this request as irrelevant to the extent it relates to Hi-Lite.
Defendants further object to this request to the extent that it seeks information protected
by attorney-client privilege and/or the work product doctrine. Subject to the foregoing general
and specific objections, Barnlight Originals will produce responsive, non-privileged
19

documents, to the extent any exist that have not previously been produced, at a mutually
agreeable place and time.
REQUEST NO. 54:
All internally generated profit and loss or income statements for each Barnlight Originals
and Hi-Lite business unit or division which sells the products at issue in this litigation.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REQUEST NO. 55:
All data and/or documents containing Barnlight Originals and Hi-Lite sales transaction
data, including: product/model number, description, gross sales, net sales, returns, cost of
sales, units sold, customer name and shipping location.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REQUEST NO. 56:
Summary documents from which it is possible to determine the types and amounts of costs or
expenses incurred by Barnlight Originals, Hi-Lite and Ohai in connection with the creation,
production, performance, and delivery of products at issue.
RESPONSE:
Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b), Defendants object to this request as being overly broad,
unduly burdensome, not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, vague, and
ambiguous. Defendants also object to this request as irrelevant to the extent it relates to Hi-Lite
and Mr. Ohai. Defendants further object to this request to the extent that it seeks information
protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work product doctrine. Subject to the foregoing
general and specific objections, Barnlight Originals will produce responsive, nonprivileged documents, to the extent any exist that have not previously been produced, at a
mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST NO. 64:
All sales, revenue, and/or profit forecasts or projections generated by Barnlight Originals and HiLite in connection with products at issue in this litigation.
RESPONSE:
Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b), Defendants object to this request as being overly broad,
unduly burdensome, not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence, vague, and
ambiguous. Defendants further object to this request to the extent that it seeks information
protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work product doctrine. Subject to the foregoing
general and specific objections, Defendants will produce responsive, non-privileged
documents, to the extent any exist that have not previously been produced, at a mutually
agreeable place and time.
FOURTH REQUEST FOR PRODCUTION OF DOCUMENTS AND THINGS
REQUEST NO. 10: All documents relating to the manufacture, including the cost and method
of manufacture, of each completed product, and each component part of each completed product,
asserted against BLE as part of Defendants’ trade dress infringement claims in this litigation.
RESPONSE: Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 34(b), Defendants object to this request as being
overly broad, unduly burdensome, not reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence,
vague, and ambiguous. Defendants object to the request as irrelevant to the extent it relates to
Barnlight Originals and Jeffrey Ohai. Defendants further object to this request to the extent
that it seeks information protected by attorney-client privilege and/or the work product
doctrine. Subject to the foregoing general and specific objections, Defendants will produce
20

responsive, non-privileged documents, to the extent any exist that have not previously been
produced, at a mutually agreeable place and time.
REQUEST NO. 16: All documents showing damages suffered by Defendants in connection
with the allegations made in the Second Amended Counterclaims against BLE.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
REQUEST NO. 31: All documents used or to be relied upon by Defendants in calculating or
ascertaining the damages allegedly sustained by Hi-Lite due to BLE’s allegedly false and
misleading advertisements.
RESPONSE: [SAME RESPONSE]
A.

Defendants Have Willfully Violated This Court’s Discovery Order.
Defendants have engaged in a consistent pattern of obstruction and abuse of the

discovery process since the inception of this litigation. “It is not the court’s role, nor that of
opposing counsel, to drag a party kicking and screaming through the discovery process.” U & I
Corp. v. Advanced Med. Design, Inc., 251 F.R.D. 667, 676 (M.D. Fla. 2008). Defendants’
repeated failures to meet their obligation to provide discovery in this matter and comply with the
Discovery Rules, Local Rules and the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure has necessitated costly
and unnecessary motion practice by Plaintiff in order to compel Defendants to provide discovery.
See Dkt. Nos. 65, 72, 78, 79 & 91. Notwithstanding this Court’s Discovery Order (Dkt. 95),
expressly directing Defendants to complete production of all responsive documents relating to
the ‘477 Patent and Plaintiff’s First Requests for Production of Documents, Plaintiff has willfully
withheld responsive documents and is in violation of this Court’s order. Defendants repeated
promises to provide production of documents have rung hollow. Courts in this district have
noted that “[a] party will not be permitted to gain an advantage by agreeing to cure the discovery
violation, then fail to implement the cure, and hope to avoid a sanction by forestalling the
sanctions ruling.” In re Seroquel Products Liab. Litig., 244 F.R.D. 650, 657 (M.D. Fla. 2007).
See Ex. I (Defendants’ once again failed to complete production after agreeing to a date certain.).

21

Plaintiff, Counterclaim-Defendants and Third-Party Defendants have suffered prejudice
as a direct result of Defendants’ failure to timely produce documents in response to their written
requests for the production of documents. In re Eisen, 31 F.3d 1447, 1452-53 (9th Cir. 1994)
(noting that prejudice from unreasonable delay in the production of documents is presumed); see
also Payne v. Exxon Corp., 121 F.3d 503, 508 (9th Cir. 1997) (noting that last-minute tender of
documents does not cure prejudice). For example, Defendants’ delays in producing documents
responsive to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents have resulted in: (i) the delay and
increased cost of expert reports which must now be expedited at an additional cost, (ii) the
piecemeal production of documents has required second and third reviews of documents
previously produced due to incomplete data from which to coduct analyses, (iii) the delay in
scheduling and conducting critical depositions and third-party discovery, (iv) injury to Plaintiff’s
ability to complete critical discovery prior to the deadline and to fully develop its claims and
defenses in this case. Moreover, Defendants’ failure to timely provide discovery has increased
the cost of this litigation by requiring Plaintiff to engage in unnecessary and costly motion
practice with this court including three motions to compel and the amendment of certain
deadlines in the Case Management and Scheduling Order.
Furthermore, Defendants have unjustly shifted their burden, adding substantial expense,
including attorney’s fees and costs, to Plaintiff by failing to meet their obligation to review
documents for responsiveness and relevancy prior to production. Instead, Plaintiff has been
forced to unnecessarily waste time and resources reviewing nearly forty thousand pages of
clearly irrelevant and unresponsive documents, including nearly forty-thousand pages of
computer code, hundreds of pornographic images and pages filled with nonsensical content (e.g.,
pages filled with various icons and Wing Dings fonts). More than half of Defendants’ document

22

production in response to this Court’s Discovery Order (Dkt. 95) was clearly unresponsive and
irrelevant to the issues in this litigation. Thus, this Court should order that Defendants
compensate Plaintiff for its expenses, including attorneys’ fees, incurred in conducting its
unnecessary review of the aforementioned documents and order any other such sanctions this
Court finds just in balancing the prejudice caused to Plaintiff.
B.

Defendants Have Willfully Withheld Responsive Documents from its
Production.

Despite Plaintiff’s multiple requests for discovery in both its interrogatories and requests
for production of documents, Defendants have willfully withheld responsive documents relating
to Defendant Hi-Lite’s financial and business records. Notwithstanding the fact that Plaintiff has
claimed contributory and vicarious trademark infringement by Hi-Lite, and that Hi-Lite has
asserted multiple counterclaims, including claims for damages, against Plaintiff, Defendants
have continued to willfully withhold from its production, the financial records of Defendant, HiLite. Moreover, Hi-Lite is the primary supplier and manufacturer of products sold by Defendant,
Barnlight Originals, and directly profits from the sale of its products by Barnlight Originals.
Defendants’ counsel has withheld Hi-Lite’s financial information on the basis of its unilateral
determination that such documents are irrelevant to the issues in the lawsuit.
Hi-Lite’s financial information is critical and directly relevant to Plaintiff’s analysis of
damages and its expert report. Accordingly, this Court should order Defendants’ immediate
production of Hi-Lite’s financial records as requested in Plaintiff First, Second, Third and Fourth
Requests for Production of Documents and allow Plaintiff’s third-party vendor access to HiLite’s relevant computer systems and business records in order to expedite the collection and
review of Hi-Lite’s financial information. In crafting sanctions under Rule 37 and their inherent
powers, Courts in this district have ordered similar directives to cure prejudice caused by
23

offending parties’ refusal to provide discovery. See U & I Corp.., 251 F.R.D. 667, 676 (M.D.
Fla. 2008) (“The court finds that burden and expense of the independent inspection of the hard
drives is outweighed by the benefits of the proposed discovery.”).
C.

Defendants Have Engaged in Multiple Sanctionable Discovery Abuses and
Have Actively Obstructed the Discovery Process.

Defendants ongoing pattern of obstruction and abuse of the discovery process has
necessitated the filing of multiple motions to compel by Plaintiff. Accordingly, Plaintiff
respectfully requests that the Court exercise its discretion and hereby moves this Court for an
order directing Defendants to compensate Plaintiff for its costs and expenses, including
attorneys’ fees, for the unnecessary and avoidable motion practice it has been forced to engage
in, and to grant such further relief as this Court deems just. Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees
and costs as set forth herein are substantial and result directly from Defendants’ failure to
comply with the Discovery Rules, Local Rules, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and, perhaps
most significantly, this Court’s Discovery Order (Dkt. 95).
Under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 37(b)(2)(A), if this Court finds that Defendants
have violated its Discovery Order (Dkt. 95) without substantial justification, it is obligated to
impose sanctions upon Defendant for “failure to obey an order to provide or permit discovery.”
Fed.R.Civ.P. 37(b)(2)(A). Here, Defendant is in direct violation of this Court’s Discovery Order
because Defendants have: (i) failed to complete their production of documents relating to
Plaintiff’s First Requests for Production of Documents or the ‘477 Patent, as ordered by this
Court (Dkt. 95), (ii) failed to produce long overdue documents responsive to Plaintiff’s Second,
Third and Fourth Requests for the Production of Documents, (iii) failed to produce Hi-Lite’s
financial information, instead, has willfully withheld such information from its production, and
has (iv) failed to cooperate with the discovery process as obligated under the Federal Rules of
24

Civil Procedure, Local Rules and Discovery Rules. Accordingly, Plaintiff respectfully requests
that this Court order Defendants to provide remuneration for Plaintiff’s expenses relating to the
filing of its multiple motions to compel Defendants’ production of documents.
D.

Defendants Have Misclassified Thousands of Documents in its Production.

To the extent that Defendants have produced responsive documents, they have limited
their usefulness by improperly designated a disproportionate number of their production as
Highly Confidential under the protective order in this case. To be sure, in stark contrast to the
terms of the protective order, Defendants have admitted that they have classified approximately
twenty-seven percent of documents in their production as “Highly Confidential” by improperly
using keywords to batch classify such documents. See Fernandez Decl., Ex. E. According to
Counsel for Defendants, prior to producing documents to Plaintiff, Defendants blindly classified
“any documents reflecting the names of Defendants’ customers, distributors, or vendors . . .
regardless of the content of the document” as Highly Confidential. Id. Rather than reviewing
each document for its specific substance to determine whether it fits within the narrow confines
of the “Highly Confidential” classification under the protective order, Defendants improperly
classified documents as “Highly Confidential.” As a result of its wholesale misclassification,
thousands of documents produced by Defendants in this case are misclassified as Highly
Confidential. Upon discovering this issue and requesting that Defendants review and reclassify
their documents under the parameters contained in the protective order governing this case, and
the Federal Rules, Defendants responded by directing Plaintiffs to identify each specific
document that has been misclassified—essentially shifting the burden and cost of Defendants’
discovery to Plaintiffs. Id. When Plaintiffs refused Defendants’ invitation to identify each and
every document for reclassification—which would require a costly second review of all

25

documents—Defendants simply ignored Plaintiff’s request that it review and reclassify its own
documents, and, to date, have failed to do so. Defendants’ attempt to shift the burden and cost of
its own failure to properly classify its produced documents is yet another example of Defendants’
dilatory conduct and cavalier attitude toward discovery in this matter.
III.

CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff, Barn Light Electric Company, LLC, respectfully

requests that this Court exercise its discretion and enter an order: (i) directing Defendants to
provide compensation for Plaintiff’s expenses, including attorneys’ fees, in bringing Defendants
into compliance with this Court’s Discovery Order and for this, and its previously filed motions
to compel; (ii) directing Defendants to provide compensation for Plaintiff’s expenses, including
attorneys’ fees, associated with the unnecessary and unduly burdensome review of
approximately forty thousand (40,000) pages of irrelevant and unresponsive documents; (iii)
directing Defendants to provide access to its computer systems and business records for the
copying of Hi-Lite’s and Barnlight Original’s financial records by an independent third-party
vendor; (iv) directing Defendants’ to complete production of all documents responsive to
Plaintiff’s long overdue First, Second, Third and Fourth Requests for Production of Documents
by a date certain; and (v) an order precluding and/or striking Defendants’ Expert Reports in this
matter due to Defendants’ failure to comply with this Court’s Discovery Order (Dkt. 95) and to
remedy the prejudice and inequity caused to Plaintiff, Counterclaim-Defendants’ and Third-Party
Defendants’ resulting from Defendants’ delay in providing discovery and intentional refusal to
produce critical discovery required for the development of Plaintiff’s expert reports.
Dated: August 27, 2015

Respectfully submitted,
/s/ Joseph R. Sozzani
Joseph R. Sozzani
26

Admitted Pro Hac Vice
Alejandro J. Fernandez
Florida Bar No. 32221
Gregory L. Hillyer
Florida Bar No. 682489
David M. Stahl
Florida Bar No. 84713
Matthew N. Horowitz
Florida Bar No. 98564
FELDMAN GALE, P.A.
400 N. Tampa Street, Suite 2830
Tampa, FL 33602
(813) 374-8890
(305) 358-3309
afernandez@feldmangale.com
jsozzani@feldmangale.com
ghillyer@feldmangale.com
dstahl@feldmangale.com
mhorowitz@feldmangale.com
Attorneys for Plaintiff, Counterclaim-Defendants and Third Party Defendants
BARN LIGHT ELECTRIC COMPANY, LLC AND
BRYAN AND DONNA SCOTT
____________________________________
Michael J. Colitz, III
Florida Bar No. 164348
Stephen G. Anderson
Florida Bar No. 0105697
GRAYROBINSON, P.A.
401 E. Jackson Street, Suite 2700
Tampa, FL 33602
(813) 273-5000
(813) 273-5145 (fax)
michael.colitz@gray-robinson.com
stephen.anderson@gray-robinson.com
Attorneys for Defendants, Counterclaim-Plaintiffs and Third Party Plaintiff
CERTIFICATE OF CONFERENCE PURSUANT TO LOCAL RULE 3.01(g)
Pursuant to M.D. Fla. L.R. 3.01(g), counsel for Plaintiff has conferred in good faith with counsel
for Defendants regarding the relief requested in this motion and the parties were unable to reach
agreement.
/s/ Alejandro J. Fernandez
Alejandro J. Fernandez
27

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on the 27th day of August 2015, I electronically filed the foregoing with the
Clerk of the Court by using the CM/ECF system, which will send a notice of electronic filing to
all parties of record.
/s/ Alejandro J. Fernandez
Alejandro J. Fernandez

28

