Case 1:04-cv-00163-GMS Document 215 _~ Filed 08/22/2006 Page1 of8

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

 

DONALD M. DURKIN CONTRACTING, CASE NO. 04-0163-GMS
INC., Plaintiff

vs. JURY TRIAL DEMANDED
CITY OF NEWARK, et al., Defendants

and

CITY OF NEWARK, Third-Party Plaintiff
VS.

DONALD M. DURKIN CONTRACTING
and FEDERAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
Third-Party Defendants

 

ANSWERING BRIEF OF DONALD M. DURKIN CONTRACTING, INC.
TO THE CITY OF NEWARK'S MOTIONS RESECTING THE METHOD OF THE
VALUATION OF PLAINTIFF'S DAMAGES

I. BACKGROUND FACTS

Donald M. Durkin Contracting, Inc. ("Durkin") hereby responds to the Motion and
Memorandum submitted on behalf of the City of Newark Defendants ("City") respecting the
measure of damages to which Durkin is entitled.

In two separate Motions, the City asserts that "If it is found that Durkin was not properly
terminated by Newark for cause the Court must then treat Durkin as having been terminated for
convenience. In that event, according to the contract, Durkin's damages would be limited to the
payment for completed and accepted work in accordance with its contract price, including
overhead and profit, and costs of termination, and nothing more." See City of Newark Defendants'

Opening Brief in Support of Motion in Limine as to Plaintiff's Claim for Economic Damages and

Page 1 of 8
KOP:347882v1 3514-04
Case 1:04-cv-00163-GMS Document 215 Filed 08/22/2006 Page2of8

Professional fees, p. 1; City of Newark Defendants' Opening Brief in Support of Motion in Limine as to

Valuation of Plaintiff's Damages, p. 1.

The only issue addressed in this response memorandum is the proper method of

calculating the damages to which Durkin is entitled for the City's breach of contract.!

The City posits that if it is found that Durkin was not properly terminated by the City for
cause, the Court must then view the City's actions as a termination "for convenience" and not
permit the recovery by Durkin of so-called "expectation damages." The City further argues that
Durkin is not entitled to recover damages "under the equitable measure of guantum meruit, also

referred to as the `total cost method.'" See City's Opening Brief 2, p. 3.

The underpinnings to the City's arguments are simply not present. First, the contract
drafted by the City makes no provision for the "transformation" of the breach by the City for
improper termination into a "termination for convenience", and second, contrary to the City's
labeling of Durkin's damages and assertion that they are "total cost damages", the contract
authored by the City has provided the method of calculating the amounts due Durkin. The City's
designee, Ms. Carol Houch, admitted and acknowledged that the method being used by Durkin
was correct, namely that all incomplete work is to be paid for on a time and material basis. See

Plaintiff's Motion in Limine to Preclude the City from Offering Evidence that the Method for Payment for

Incomplete Work is Other Than on a Time and Material Basis.

THERE IS NO PROVISION IN THE CONTRACT TO TRANSFORM A DEFAULT
INTO A TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE

 

' This response is limited to the amounts due from the City to Durkin due to the City's breach of contract only; this

answering memorandum does not addresses any other damages to which Durkin is entitled resulting from the other
conduct of the City.

KOP:347882v1 3514-04
Case 1:04-cv-00163-GMS Document 215 Filed 08/22/2006 Page3of8&

To begin, it must be remembered that the Contract and all Specifications were all drafted
by the City or their agents. As it relates to the transformation of an improper termination for
default into a termination for convenience, the City, as the author of the Contract, could have
clearly and unambiguously provided that an improper termination for default would be
"converted" into a termination for convenience. But the Contract authored by the City makes no

such provision for an "automatic" transformation. See Article 15 "Suspension of Work and

Termination."

Indeed, this unwarranted and contractually unsupported position presumes that the City
was entitled to default the contractor with impunity and in bad faith, and later claim that if the
default is determined to have been wrongful, that it should be entitled to retreat to a damage
analysis based on a "termination for convenience." There is no contractual basis for this position
and the City cites to none. What the City is asking the Court to do is to add terms to the Contract

that perhaps the City now wishes it had included. Respectfully, this is not the Court's role.

Apparently acknowledging that there is no right in the Contract to make the
transformation that it seeks, the City argues that it has the implied right to make this change. The
City grounds its theory on a decision of the United States Third Circuit Court of Appeals, Linan-
Faye Construction, Inc. v. Housing Authority of the City of Camden, 49 F.3rd 915 (Third Cir.
1995). The City claims that Linan-Faye bestows the right to change an improper termination for
default into a termination for convenience without any consequences. Indeed, the City relies on
Linan-Faye to refute the supposed claim by Durkin that it is seeking "expectation damages."

There are two fundament errors in the City's argument: first, Durkin is not seeking
"expectation damages" and second, the Linan-Faye decision has little application to a Delaware

breach of contract issue.

KOP:347882v1 3514-04
Case 1:04-cv-00163-GMS Document 215 Filed 08/22/2006 Page4of8

First, the Court in Linan-Faye applied the law of the State of New Jersey, not Delaware.
49 F.3rd at 920. Respectfully, the City's analysis, grounded on the wrong assumptions and the

decisional law of a different state has little, if any, application to this case.

More fundamental is that the City also argues that Durkin's "method" of computing its
breach of contract damages is to use equitable principals of quantum meruit and a "total cost
approach." That fundamentally misapprehends the clear statement of itemized damages being
sought in this case. Indeed, the City discloses a lack of familiarity with the Contract the City
required Durkin to execute, and further ignores the admission of the City's designee in her
deposition as to the method of calculating the amounts due Durkin. See Plaintiffs Motion in

Limine to Preclude the City from Offering Evidence that the Method for Payment for Incomplete Work is

Other Than on a Time and Material Basis.

The City has erroneously stated that "Durkin contends that it is entitled, in part, to over
five million dollars in damages which represent its actual costs to perform the entire project,
plus re-calculated inflated equipment rates." This statement discloses a total lack of
understanding of Durkin's damages and what the Contract, itself, prescribed, as the means to pay

Durkin for the work performed as of the date of termination which remained "incomplete."

Contrary to the theory by the City that Durkin is looking "outside" of the Contract for the
method of computing its contract damages, it is, in fact following the express terms of the
Contract as drafted by the City, itself. First, by the terms of the Contract that the City authored,
the Contract was not a "Unit Price"contract as defined in section 11.9 of the Contract

specifications. The contract price and the amount bid by Durkin was to complete the entire

KOP:347882v1 3514-04
Case 1:04-cv-00163-GMS Document 215 _ Filed 08/22/2006 Page5of8

project." The contract terms specifically prescribed that this is a lump sum contract and at the
time that the City terminated the Contract, the City argues that approximately seventy percent

(70%) of the physical work was complete.

Because there are no agreements or provisions in the Contract for "lump sum" payments
for a partially completed contract, the provisions of 11.4.1 through and including 11.4.4 of the
Contract are applicable. As set forth in greater detail below, these sections provide for the "time
and materials" method of payment for the work started, but left incomplete. This method of
computation of the amounts due under the contract is not a "total cost" claim by Durkin. It

follows the exact provisions of the Contract.

What should truly be troubling to the City is that no one on City Council and no one in
the City administration understood the magnitude of the amounts that would be payable to
Durkin if they terminated the Contract. Indeed, the representatives of the City have all admitted
that they didn't know what the costs would be to the City when they terminated Durkin; but the
designee of the City, Carol Houch, did admit that the method of payment to Durkin for the work
performed to the date of termination, regardless of whether of not Durkin was in default or not,

was the same: all work completed to date would be paid for on a time and materials basis. See,

id.

 

* Section 11.8 of the Instructions to Bidders states "Bids must be priced on a lump sum basis." Similarly, Section 4
of the Bid Form provides: "BIDDER will complete the Work for the following price(s). The bid award shall be
based on the total `lump sum' bid for the contract using the total sum for all the WORK minus any of the `deduct'
components that the OWNER may select..."

* Section 11.4.1 is the cost of labor based on payroll records; 11.4.2 provides for the payment of materials and
equipment (including "storage" which we believe includes "standby" time for equipment) together with mobilization
and demobilization; 11.4.3 applies to subcontractor obligations; and, 11.4.5, the costs of consultants. There are
additional recoverable costs described in 11.5 which may or may not be applicable. Section 11.6 prescribes the
contractors fee for overhead and profit.

KOP:347882v1 3514-04
Case 1:04-cv-00163-GMS Document 215 Filed 08/22/2006 Page6eof8

Even if one accepts the City's assumption that the termination for convenience is a route
available to the City, then all applicable provisions of the Contract must be considered in pari
materia with all others. Omitted from the City's analysis are the second and third components
of the payment clauses related to the termination of the contract "for convenience." Article
15.4.2 provides: "expenses sustained prior to the effective date of termination and performing
services and furnishing /abor, materials or equipment as required by the contract documents in
connection with uncompleted work, plus fair and reasonable sums for overhead and profit on
such expenses." In addition, payment is to be made "for all claims, costs, losses and damages
incurred in settlement of terminated contracts with Subcontractors, suppliers and others; and for

reasonable expenses deliberately attributable to termination." 15.4.3 *

There should not be any question that "time and material" is the correct method of
computing the amounts to be paid for "uncompleted work" or work that was not "accepted"
before the improper termination. Further, there should no debate that all work related to the
placement of the liner, geotextile and the Zone IV materials was incomplete and therefore, all
work related to these items, including the screening of the Zone IV materials, placement of the

liner, geotextile and Zone IV are to be paid in accordance with Article 15.4.2.

Although the City may argue to the contrary, al/ subcontractor work is to be paid on a
time and material basis as well. Once again, the records reflect that the City refused to accept
the subcontractors' work, even where the City agreed to make some payments to the
subcontractors. Article 15.4.1 requires "acceptance" for its application. There was none. In

point of fact, ina memorandum dated July 14, 2004, provided to the City, URS reviewed

 

* Durkin has been sued by multiple subcontractors as a result of the City's actions. Durkin's costs and counsel fees
incurred in defense of these claims is a recoverable damage.

KOP:347882v1 3514-04
Case 1:04-cv-00163-GMS Document 215 _~ Filed 08/22/2006 Page/7of8

subcontractor work and concluded that most, if not all, subcontractor work was incomplete and

that none of the work would be accepted.0x00B0

The project records also confirm that the Zone V material and all embankment and
excavation under the liner was deemed "incomplete" by URS and payment in full for this work
was not owed because the slopes ostensibly had to be regraded. The documentation proves that

the Zone V work was incomplete and subject to payment pursuant to 15.2.2.

The methodology followed by Durkin and prescribed by the contract subsumes and
eliminates the debate over the claim for extras made by Durkin that the City claimed was "base
contract work." Moreover, the method prescribed by the Contract and followed by Durkin
compensates Durkin for the Change Order that URS had not yet prepared or submitted to the
City to compensate Durkin for the impacts of weather and other unusual and unanticipated
conditions. (URS project manager, Mark Prouty, PE, has testified that Durkin was entitled to an

additional change order to compensate Durkin for these additional costs.)

The assertion that Durkin has made a "total cost" claim or that Durkin is making a claim
for work that it did not perform is simply wrong. What apparently the City didn't know were the
ramifications of its actions when they took them on February 2, 2004, or what the language of

the Contract it drafted prescribed. Apparently in its zeal to fire Durkin, the City failed to

 

0x00B0 The draft of the proposed subcontractor release submitted to Durkin when the City agreed to pay some
subcontractors included the following language: "When the Project is completed, Newark will issue a letter to
Durkin and (subcontractor) so stating, and three years from the date of that letter, if Newark has not initiated
a lawsuit against (subcontractor) alleging that (subcontractor)'s work was defective, Newark will

be deemed to have released and discharged Durkin, ](subcontractor) and Federal and their

respective past, present and future employees, officers, officers, shareholders, predecessors,

successors, representatives, agents, attorneys, advisors, assigns, transferees, parents, subsidiaries,

and affiliates, from any and all claims, demands, actions, liabilities, debts and causes of action

which Newark has or may hereafter acquire as a result of any alleged defects, damages, or

problems associated with the work..."

KOP:347882v1 3514-04
Case 1:04-cv-00163-GMS Document 215 Filed 08/22/2006 Page 8of8

determine what the costs to the City would be, but the City's designee has now admitted the

obligations in the Contract.

What the City believes it a "total cost approach" to computing damages is the result of
the applying the language of the Contract to the facts. The City's lack of understanding of the
Contract terms now, or when they terminated, Durkin does not give it the right to advocate a
different method of damages and the right to eschew the obligations in the agreement they
authored. Durkin is following the Contract and is seeking payment as prescribed thereby, and the

City's Motion in Limine should be denied.

Powell, Trachtman, Logan,
Carrle & Lombardo, P.C.

By:
Paul A. Logan
Delaware Supreme Court ID #3339
475 Allendale Road, Suite 200
King of Prussia, PA 19406
Telephone: 610-354-9700
Telefacsimile: 610-354-9760
Attorneys for Plaintiff

 

 

0x00B0 Indeed, City Councilperson Rewa has testified that knowing the costs of termination was a very important factor
that should have been considered in deciding to fire Durkin, but they didn't know, but voted to terminate Durkin
anyway

KOP:347882v1 3514-04
