U.S. Department of Justice
United States Attorney
Eastern District of New York
F. # 2015R00200

271 Cadman Plaza East
Brooklyn, New York 11201

July 9, 2015
By ECF
The Honorable Sterling Johnson, Jr.
United States District Judge
United States District Courthouse
225 Cadman Plaza East
Brooklyn, New York 11201
Re:

United States v. Adamou Djibo
Docket No. 15-CR-088 (SJ)

Dear Judge Johnson:
The government respectfully submits this response in opposition to the
defendant’s motion to suppress statements and evidence in the above case. As set for more
fully below, the defendant’s arguments fail as a matter of law and, accordingly, a suppression
hearing is unwarranted. In short, even if the facts alleged in the defendant’s motion are true,
there is no basis to suppress either the defendant’s statements or the cellular telephone seized
from him on February 3, 2015.
I.

Background

This is a heroin importation and distribution conspiracy case, in which the
defendant was a key member of an international narcotics trafficking organization
responsible for importing large amounts of heroin into the United States from Togo. On
February 3, 2015, the defendant was arrested at JFK International Airport as he attempted to
board a flight out of the United States. The defendant’s flight destination was the United
Kingdom, via Amsterdam, although the defendant concedes in his affidavit that his ultimate
destination was Togo.
A. The Border Search
After checking in for his flight on February 3, 2015 and obtaining his boarding
pass, the defendant passed through the TSA security checkpoint and made his way to the
boarding gate. At the departure gate, Customs and Boarder Protection (“CBP”) officers
selected the defendant for additional screening and conducted an outbound border
examination prior to airplane boarding. The CBP officers asked the defendant to step aside
from the line of boarding passengers so as not to obstruct the boarding process. The
defendant agreed. The CBP officers conducted a border search of the defendant’s carry-on

luggage and other property and located multiple electronic devices and cellular telephones in
the defendant’s possession, including an Apple iPhone (the “Subject iPhone”). As part of the
boarder search, the defendant was asked for and provided the passcode to the Subject iPhone
to agents from the Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Investigations
(“HSI”) who were assisting the CBP officers. During this time the defendant was not under
arrest and remained in the airport terminal boarding area near the departure gate.
B. The Defendant’s Arrest
After CBP officers completed the border search of the defendant’s property,
the defendant was placed under arrest. He was taken from the boarding gate area to an office
elsewhere in the terminal for arrest processing. HSI agents advised the defendant of his
Miranda rights, which he invoked. No post-arrest questioning took place.
Due to the late hour, the defendant was taken to the Metropolitan Detention
Center in Brooklyn, New York for overnight lodging. He was presented for arraignment the
following day in the Eastern District of New York.
On March 5, 2015 a grand jury in the Eastern District of New York returned a
four-count indictment charging the defendant with (1) conspiracy to import heroin, in
violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 963 and 960(b)(1)(A); (2) importation of heroin; in violation of 21
U.S.C. §§ 952(a), 960(a)(1) and 960(b)(1)(A); (3) conspiracy to possess heroin with intent to
distribute, in violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 846 and 841(b)(1)(A)(i); and (4) possession of heroin
with intent to distribute, in violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 841(a)(1) and 841(b)(1)(A)(i). See Dkt.
No. 6. On July 1, 2015, a grand jury in the Eastern District returned a Superseding
Indictment (the “Indictment”), charging the defendant with the same four counts but
expanding the date range on the conspiracy counts. See Dkt. No. 22.
On March 3, 2015, the Honorable Ramon E. Reyes, Jr. issued a search warrant
for the Subject iPhone.
II.

There is No Basis to Suppress the Defendant’s Statements or his Property
because All Were Lawfully Obtained.

The defendant argues that his border search statements and his physical
property seized, including the Subject iPhone and records obtained from it, should be
suppressed for three reasons. None are sound.
A. The Defendant’s Probable Cause Challenges are Unwarranted because
Probable Cause is Not Necessary for a Border Search a Grand Jury has
Already Returned an Indictment
First, the defendant argues that his statements and property should be
suppressed because “they were the fruits of a warrantless arrest without cause.” Mot. at 4.
The defendant is wrong. As an initial matter, the defendant’s statements and property were
obtained pursuant to a border search at the airport boarding gate. “It is well established that
2

the government has broad powers to conduct searches at the border even where . . . there is
no reasonable suspicion that the prospective entrant has committed a crime . . . . Routine
searches of the persons and effects of entrants are not subject to any requirement of
reasonable suspicion, probable cause, or warrant.” Tabbaa v. Chertoff, 509 F.3d 89, 97-98
(2d Cir. 2007). Accord United States v. Ramsey, 431 U.S. 606, 619 (1977) (routine border
searches without a warrant, probable cause or reasonable suspicion deemed “reasonable” in
light of government’s interests in protecting its border); United States v. Thirty-Seven
Photographs, 402 U.S. 363, 376 (1971) (border searches reasonable because they further the
goals of law enforcement). That the defendant was departing the United States rather than
arriving into the country is of no matter. The border search exception applies to outbound
border searches the same way that it applies to inbound border searches. United States v.
Swarovski, 592 F.2d 131, 133 (2d Cir. 1979) (“The warrantless searches of appellant's
luggage as he was about to depart the country did not violate his Fourth Amendment
rights.”). As the Second Circuit explained, “that customs officials can make such a search
only when the person whose effects are being searched is entering the United States is not the
law.” Id. (collecting cases).
Electronic devices, such as Subject iPhone, are equally covered under the
border search exception in addition to items like luggage or personal property. See United
States v. Irving, 452 F.3d 110, 123-24 (2d Cir. 2006) (“Searches of a person's luggage or
personal belongings are routine searches.”) Searches of computers and other electronic
devices such as cellular telephones “are likewise considered routine searches that may be
conducted in the absence of reasonable suspicion.” United States v. Young, No. 12-CR00210-RJA-JJM, 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 33496, at *5 (W.D.N.Y. Jan. 16, 2013) (citing
United States v. Arnold, 533 F.3d 1003, 1008 (9th Cir. 2008), cert. denied, 555 U.S. 1176
(2009). As the Ninth Circuit reasoned, “reasonable suspicion is not needed for customs
officials to search a laptop or other personal electronic storage devices at the border.”
Arnold, at 1008. See also United States v. Linarez-Delgado, 259 Fed. Appx. 506, 508, 2007
WL 4525200, *1 (3d Cir. 2007) (“Data storage media and electronic equipment, such as
films, computer devices, and videotapes, may be inspected and viewed during a reasonable
border search”).
At the time law enforcement officers conducted the search, the defendant was
not under arrest and was lawfully subject to such a search because he had already passed
through the TSA security checkpoint and was at the “border” about to board an international
flight. Accordingly, probable cause was not needed to stop, question, and search the
defendant.
The defendant’s attempt to challenge the basis for his subsequent arrest is also
without merit. As set forth more fully in the six-page Complaint, ample probable cause
exists for this defendant’s arrest. See Dkt. No. 1. It is not necessary to make a “prima facie
showing of criminal activity” or to show that it is more probable than not that a crime
occurred. United States v. Cruz, 834 F.2d 47, 50 (2d Cir. 1987). The Complaint more than
satisfies this standard. As the Complaint explains, after a drug courier was arrested
attempting to enter the United States on a flight from Togo with more than six kilograms of
heroin concealed in his suitcase, law enforcement agents seized and searched the courier’s
3

cellular telephone. Records obtained from that search evidenced this defendant’s extensive
involvement in the drug smuggling operation and, combined with immigration records,
provided overwhelming cause for his arrest. Since then, two different grand juries have
agreed there was sufficient probable cause to proceed with this case and returned an
indictment and superseding indictment against the defendant. The idea that the sufficiency
of the Complaint can be challenged at this stage in proceedings—post-indictment, with
overwhelming evidence of the defendant’s crimes mounting—is baseless.
The defendant’s challenge to the basis for his arrest is no more than a thinlydisguised attempt to preview the government’s trial evidence and prematurely obtain § 3500
materials for potential witnesses. These attempts are misguided. The goal of a probable
cause standard is not “to finally determine guilt through a weighing of evidence,” and the
defendant should not be permitted to do so here. Krause v. Bennett, 887 F.2d 362, 372 (2d
Cir. 1989). The government has already provided Rule 16 discovery and will provide § 3500
material in a timely fashion before trial. This fishing expedition has no merit and should be
rejected.
B. The Law Does Not Require Probable Cause for Outbound Border Searches
Next, the defendant argues that his pre-Miranda statements should be
suppressed. Mot. at 5. The law says otherwise. The defendant’s pre-Miranda statements
were not obtained incident to arrest, but rather in the course of a border search, where the
defendant was not “in custody.” The over-arching “custody” question for Miranda purposes
is whether a reasonable person in a suspect's position would significantly have understood
himself to be subjected to restraints comparable to those associated with a formal arrest.
United States v. FNU LNU, 653 F.3d 144, 153 (2d Cir. 2011) (denying appeal of motion to
suppress statements obtained during border search without Miranda warnings). In FNU
LNU, the defendant had been stopped at the border and subjected to an interrogation in a
closed room, out of public view, with an armed guard escort, lasting for 90 minutes. Id. The
Second Circuit found that even under these circumstances, which are far more severe than
even the defendant’s own account of his CBP examination, a reasonable defendant could not
find what occurred to be “the equivalent of a formal arrest.” Id. at 155. The court explained
that a reasonable person would consider such an examination “par for the course” when
entering the country from abroad. Id.
In the instant case, the defendant was stopped for a routine border examination
by CBP officers at the airport boarding gate. He was taken aside from the passenger
boarding line, but was not removed from the boarding gate area for the CBP examination.
As any reasonable traveler knows, such examinations are “par for the course” when
attempting an international departure from a United States airport. See FNU LNU, at 155.
There was nothing unusual about questioning the defendant’s travel plans, nor was there
anything unusual about searching his electronic devices. Young, 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS
33496, at *5 (border searches of electronic devices are “considered routine searches that may
be conducted in the absence of reasonable suspicion.”). Inquiring about a device’s passcode
in order to be able to execute that search falls squarely within the routine border search
protections and does not violate the defendant’s Miranda rights in this case.
4

C. The Fruit of the Poisonous Tree Doctrine Does Not Apply to Miranda
Violations
The defendant next argues that records obtained from a search of his Subject
iPhone should be suppressed as “fruit of the poisonous tree.” Mot. at 6. This ignores wellsettled Supreme Court precedent that the Miranda rule “does not require that the statements
taken without complying with the rule and their fruits be discarded as inherently tainted.”
United States v. Patane, 542 U.S. 630, 639 (2004) (internal citations and quotations omitted)
(holding that physical evidence obtained as a result of unwarned statements is not excluded
by Miranda). That is because the Fifth Amendment only proscribes “extract[ing] from the
person's own lips an admission of guilt, which would thus take the place of other evidence.”
Id. at 637. “The Miranda presumption of coercion,” however, “has not barred the use of
unwarned, voluntary statements . . . to locate non-testimonial evidence . . . .” United States v.
Morales, 788 F.2d 883, 886 (2d Cir. 1986). Indeed, “[a]n interrogating officer's failure to
advise a suspect of his Miranda rights does not require suppression of the physical fruits of
the suspect's unwarned statements.” United States v. Capers, 627 F.3d 470, 493-494 (2d Cir.
2010).
Here, the Subject iPhone’s records were created by the defendant before the
involvement of law enforcement and therefore does not contain “compelled testimonial
evidence.” Flynn v. James, 513 Fed. Appx. 37, 40 (2d Cir. 2013) (holding statements on a
cassette tape seized from the defendant were admissible and did not violate Miranda because
they were created voluntarily before police involvement). Moreover, the Subject iPhone
search was conducted only after obtaining a search warrant from a magistrate judge, adding
an additional layer of protection against unwarranted intrusion into the device’s contents.
Accordingly, even if the defendant’s statements, including the Subject iPhone passcode, were
obtained in violation of Miranda, the fruits of the Subject iPhone search are not tainted and
should not be suppressed.
III.

The Subject iPhone Records Would Have been Inevitably Discovered

The government maintains that the Subject iPhone passcode was lawfully
obtained pursuant to a border search and that, even if a Miranda violation did occur, the
subsequent search of the device was not tainted. But even if the Court finds otherwise and
suppresses the defendant’s statement providing the passcode to unlock the Subject iPhone,
the lack of a passcode is not fatal to the government’s ability to obtain the records. That is
because HSI is in possession of technology that would allow its forensic technicians to
override the passcode security feature on the Subject iPhone and obtain the data contained
therein. In other words, even if HSI agents did not have the defendant’s passcode, they
would nevertheless have been able to obtain the records stored in the Subject iPhone using
specialized software. The software works to bypass the passcode entry requirement and
“unlock” the cellular telephone without having to enter the code. Once the device is
“unlocked” all records in it can be accessed and copied.

5

For all of the above reasons, the Court should deny the defendant’s motion to
suppress statements and physical evidence seized at the airport on February 3, 2015.
Respectfully submitted,
KELLY T. CURRIE
Acting United States Attorney
By:

cc:

/s/ Karen L. Koniuszy
Karen L. Koniuszy
Assistant U.S. Attorney
(718) 254-6072

Zachery Margulis-Ohnuma, Esq. (via ECF)
Clerk of the Court (SJ) (via ECF)

6

