Case 2:10-cv-01663-MLCF-JCW Document 53 _ Filed 06/20/10 Page 1 of 17

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA

HORNBECK OFFSHORE SERVICES, CIVIL ACTION NO.: 10-1663
LLC,
Plaintiff,
VS SECTION: "F"
KENNETH LEE "KEN" SALAZAR, in,
his official capacity as Secretary, United States MAGISTRATE: "2"

Department of the Interior;

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE
INTERIOR; ROBERT "BOB" ABBEY, in his
Official capacity as Acting Director, Mineral
Management Service; and

MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE,

Defendants
keke Ee ER RE KE EK KR KR KR KK KK kK RK K

ee & ee ee He KH KH HK KH KH

AMICUS BRIEF ON BEHALF OF BOBBY JINDAL, GOVERNOR
OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA, AND THE STATE OF LOUISIANA
IN SUPPORT OF PLAINTIFFS' MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION

The Governor and State of Louisiana, through the Louisiana Attorney General, James D.
"Buddy" Caldwell, present this amicus brief in support of the Petitioner's request that this
honorable Court order removal of the moratorium on deepwater drilling on the Outer Continental
Shelf (OCS) off the coast of Louisiana. Offshore oil and gas exploration and production are
critical components of Louisiana's economy, which was already weakened by Katrina and is
now crippled by the Deepwater Horizon disaster. With each passing day, the MMS moratorium
further threatens the economic livelihood of the State and its citizens. The State of Louisiana,
therefore, has a real interest in the outcome of this litigation.

THE STATE'S INTEREST IN THIS LITIGATION

The Governor and Attorney General, in their respective capacities as chief executive

officer and chief legal officer of the State of Louisiana have a duty to protect the interests of the
Case 2:10-cv-01663-MLCF-JCW Document 53 _ Filed 06/20/10 Page 2 of 17

State and its citizens. Implicit in that duty is the obligation to protect the economic wellbeing of
the State and its citizens, as well as the environment and natural resources of the State. At the
same time, especially in view of the ongoing harm the State is suffering from the Deepwater
Horizon disaster, the State has an interest in making sure that offshore drilling is conducted with
the utmost safety and regulatory oversight, and to ensure that the environment and natural
resources of the State are protected.

The State believes, however, that these objectives can be achieved with a balanced
approach to deepwater drilling that includes inspection, detection, and correction of any threats,
without the necessity of shutting down an entire industry segment. As demonstrated below, a
moratorium on deepwater drilling will have a severe impact on the economy of the State of
Louisiana in both the short term and long term, which has been completely ignored in
Defendants' decision-making process.

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

`The oil and gas industry is one of the leading industries in Louisiana in terms of
economic impact, taxes paid, and people employed. Louisiana is the third leading producer of
natural gas and the fourth leading producer of crude oil in the country. When OCS production is
included, Louisiana ranks second in natural gas and third in crude oil production. There are 19
active refineries in Louisiana which rely significantly on offshore production in the Gulf of
Mexico for their raw materials.

The offshore oil and gas industry, operating in the Gulf of Mexico outside of the
territorial boundaries of Louisiana, has a tremendous economic impact on the State, estimated to
be approximately $3 billion per year. This comes not only from salaries and wages of workers

on the rigs, but also from the myriad of Louisiana companies doing business with the offshore
Case 2:10-cv-01663-MLCF-JCW Document 53 _ Filed 06/20/10 Page 3 of 17

industry, including contract employment companies, boat companies, tool rental companies,
equipment servicing companies, and offshore food service companies, among many others.
`Because of the pervasiveness of the oil and gas industry in Louisiana, the entire economy is
affected, from grocery stores and restaurants to banks and schools. [insert something about Rainy
Day funding coming from oil and gas revenues]

Effective May 30, 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior, through the Minerals
Management Service (MMS), issued a "six-month suspension of all pending, current, or
approved offshore drilling operations of new deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico" in water
depths exceeding 500 feet.! According to the Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association,
the moratorium will take 33 floating rigs out of commission for at least six months." The
attached map prepared by the LSU Center for Energy Studies identifies and shows the location
of 31 of the affected rigs, all off the Louisiana coast.? Each of those rigs employs Louisiana
workers and is supplied and serviced by Louisiana companies.

The impact of the moratorium is neither speculative nor remote. According to the LSU
Center for Energy Studies, within only five months the moratorium will result in the direct layoff
of 3,339 Louisiana workers and the loss of an additional 7,656 jobs indirectly in the State.* The
Louisiana Department of Economic Development estimates that the State risks losing more than
20,000 existing and potential new jobs over the next 12 to 18 months as a result of this
moratorium.

In the long run, this moratorium will have an even more devastating effect on Louisiana's

 

* Salazar Memorandum dated March 28, 2010, and accompanying Notice to Lessees and Operators (NTL), (DOC #
5-1, p. 2-4)

2 See Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Assn. fact sheet, at http://www.crt.state.la.us/GEST/FactsFigures.aspx
= See map at http://www.crt.state.la.us/GEST/Documents/IMPACTED RIG LOCATIONS _06-04-2010.pdf .

* See charts prepared by the LSU Center for Energy Studies, estimating job losses assuming three different
recovery scenarios, at http://www.crt.state.la.us/GEST/Documents/FORECASTED ACTIVITY_11.pdf
Case 2:10-cv-01663-MLCF-JCW Document 53 _ Filed 06/20/10 Page 4 of 17

economy. The owners of these rigs will not let them sit idle for six months or more. Anadarko
Petroleum Company and Cobalt International Energy have already invoked force majeure
clauses in their contracts with drillers in the deepwater OCS, allowing the drillers to move as
many as four rigs out of the Guif of Mexico." Once these companies move their rigs there is little
chance for their immediate return at the end of the moratorium, as they will have made long-term
commitments at their new locations in Brazil, Africa, or the Middle East. By the end of the six-
month moratorium (which is scheduled but by no means certain), there will likely be no
deepwater rigs available to resume drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. Having to wait an additional
year or more for available rigs will turn the short-term adverse effects of the moratorium into a
long-term economic disaster for Louisiana.

The Louisiana Workforce Commission ("LWC") administers Louisiana's unemployment
compensation system, its workers' compensation system and its workforce programs, including
job training and work search services. Because of the moratorium, many thousands of Louisiana
workers have lost their employment and many more are at risk of losing it in the near future. All
of the programs administered by the LWC have been and will continue to be heavily impacted by
its effects. Every state agency has incurred and continues to incur costs from providing
additional public services to the citizens of the state as a result of the Deepwater Horizon Event.
The moratorium will add additional strain to systems that are already overloaded by the ongoing
crises, all while the federal government schedules more meetings.

In addition, Louisiana stands to lose substantial tax revenues as a result of the

moratorium. Income taxes will be lost from laid-off workers and closed businesses. Sales tax

 

(c) See news reports at: http://(www.reuters.com/article/idUSN0322173420100603; and
http://www.ogj.com/index/article-display/9 161423238/articles/oil-gas-journal/drilline-production-2/2010/06/cobalt-
international. html
Case 2:10-cv-01663-MLCF-JCW . Document 53 Filed 06/20/10 Page 5 of 17

revenues will be lost from reduced sales of goods and services. In addition to having an impact
on the State's General Fund, the moratorium on drilling will also affect funding for the Budget
Stabilization Fund, the Louisiana Investment Fund for Enhancement, and First Use Tax Trust
Fund, to name just a few, which rely on oil and gas revenues for their funding. Compounding the
impact of loss of revenue, the lack of these funds also threatens the State's bond rating. If the
State's revenue stream for oil and gas, as well as sales and personal income tax revenues decline
because of loss of jobs, the rating agencies will first put the State on negative credit watch and
then begin the process of lowering its rating if the moratorium continues.

Most importantly, pursuant to the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act (GOMESA), the
State of Louisiana is presently entitled to receive 32% of all mineral revenues generated from
eight million acres recently opened for drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. All of this area is now
subject to the drilling moratorium. Louisiana stands to lose enormous revenue-sharing income
into the foreseeable future which, as set forth below, are dedicated for use in natural resource

mitigation and protection.

LEGAL ISSUES

Many of the legal issues have already been put before the Court by Plaintiffs and
Defendants and will not be repeated here. Some, however, have not.

OCSLA, 43 U.S.C. 0x00A7 1332 states that it is "declared to be the policy of the United States"
that:

(4) since exploration, development, and production of the minerals of the outer

Continental Shelf will have significant impacts on coastal and non-coastal areas

of the coastal States, and on other affected States, and, in recognition of the

national interest in the effective management of the marine, coastal, and human
environments-
Case 2:10-cv-01663-MLCF-JCW Document 53 Filed 06/20/10 Page 6 of 17

(C) such States, and through such States, affected local governments, are
entitled to an opportunity to participate, to the extent consistent with the
national interest, in the policy and planning decisions made by the Federal
Government relating to exploration for, and development and production of,
minerals of the outer Continental Shelf.

(emphasis added)

In view of that stated policy, 43 U.S.C. 0x00A7 1334(a) reads, in pertinent part, as follows: "In the
enforcement of safety, environmental, and conservation laws and regulations, the Secretary
shall cooperate with the relevant departments and agencies of the Federal Government and of
the affected States." (emphasis added) Inasmuch as the State of Louisiana was completely
ignored by Defendants in the establishment of this moratorium for alleged safety reasons, the
question arises whether that failure renders Defendants' action invalid.

The Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act (GOMESA), P.L. 109-432, provides for
Federal/State revenue sharing of mineral royalties in areas of the Gulf of Mexico covered by the
drilling moratorium. Section 105(d) of GOMESA restricts the use of a state's revenue share
exclusively to one of the following:

(A) Projects and activities for the purpose of coastal protection, including
conservation, coastal restoration, hurricane protection, and infrastructure
directly affected by coastal wetland losses.

(B) Mitigation of damages to fish, wildlife, or natural resources.

(C) Implementation of a federally-approved marine, coastal, or comprehensive
conservation management plan.

(D) Mitigation of the impact of outer Continental Shelf activities through the
funding of onshore infrastructure projects. and

(E) Planning assistance and the administrative costs of complying with this section.

Given that a stated justification for the Defendants' drilling moratorium is "tan unacceptable

threat of serious and irreparable harm to wildlife and the marine, coastal, and human
Case 2:10-cv-01663-MLCF-JCW Document 53 _ Filed 06/20/10 Page 7 of 17

environment,"(c) and given that the moratorium has and will deprive the State of Louisiana of
revenues which would be dedicated to the protection of the very same natural resources the
moratorium purports to protect, the question arises as to the legality and legitimacy of
Defendants' action in light of GOMESA. Nothing in the report relied upon by the Department of
the Interior appears to have taken these statutes into account or taken the effects of the
moratorium on the State into account at all.

As discussed above, this moratorium has and will have a significant adverse effect on
thousands of small businesses in the State of Louisiana. The Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 (SBREFA) requires Defendants to have considered the effect
of its actions on these small businesses.

In Section 202 of SBREFA, Congress made specific findings that:

(1) a vibrant and growing small business sector is critical to creating jobs in a

dynamic economy;

(2) small businesses bear a disproportionate share of regulatory costs and burdens;

(3) fundamental changes that are needed in the regulatory and enforcement

culture of Federal agencies to make agencies more responsive to small business

can be made without compromising the statutory missions of the agencies;

(4) three of the top recommendations of the 1995 White House Conference on

Small Business involve reforms to the way government regulations are developed

and enforced, and reductions in government paperwork requirements;

(5) the requirements of chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code, have too often

been ignored by government agencies, resulting in greater regulatory burdens on

small entities than necessitated by statute; and

(6) small entities should be given the opportunity to seek judicial review of
agency actions required by chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code.

 

(R) Salazar Memorandum, Attachment | to Plaintiffs' First Supplemental and Amended Complaint for Declaratory
and Injunctive relief. (DOC # 5-1, p. 2)
Case 2:10-cv-01663-MLCF-JCW Document 53 Filed 06/20/10 Page 8 of 17

In keeping with those findings, Congress said in Section 203 of SBREFA that the purpose of the
Act was:

(1) to implement certain recommendations of the 1995 White House Conference on Small
Business regarding the development and enforcement of Federal regulations;

(2) to provide for judicial review of chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code;

(3) to encourage the effective participation of small businesses in the Federal regulatory
process;

(4) to simplify the language of Federal regulations affecting small businesses;

(5) to develop -more accessible sources of information on regulatory and reporting requirements
for small businesses;

(6) to_create_a_ more cooperative regulatory environment among agencies and small
businesses that is less punitive and more solution- oriented; and

(7) to_make Federal regulators more accountable for their enforcement actions by
providing small entities with a meaningful opportunity for redress of excessive enforcement
activities. (emphasis added)

Under SBREFA, Defendants were required to conduct regulatory flexibility analyses to
determine the adverse effect of its moratorium on small businesses and to insure that their
actions had the least adverse economic impact on them. Defendants' suspension documents

neither mentions SBREBPA, nor attempts to comply with the Act. Once again, the question arises

as to the legality and legitimacy of Defendants' action in light of SBREFPA .

ARGUMENT ON THE ISSUES
1. No rational reason for defendants' action.
Defendants justify the moratorium on the ground that it gives the Department of the
Interior "time to step back and investigate both the root causes of the Deepwater Horizon disaster

and to implement additional safety measures to ensure that we don't fall victim to another
Case 2:10-cv-01663-MLCF-JCW Document 53 Filed 06/20/10 Page 9 of 17

disastrous oil spill."

The prevention of future oil spills requires (1) a detailed set of rules and regulations
designed to require drilling operations be conducted in accordance with the strictest safety
standards, (2) oil and drilling companies truly dedicated to following those rules and regulations,
and (3) a watchdog Federal agency intent on policing the industry to make sure the rules and
regulations are followed.

It is clear from the testimony in the joint MMS/Coast Guard hearings, and the recent
hearings before Congress, that the Deepwater Horizon disaster was the result of the abject failure
of (2) and (3) above. More studies and investigation will not make the Deepwater Horizon
disaster go away; Louisiana will have to suffer with that for decades to come. Nor will more
studies and investigation insure that the MMS will enforce the rules and regulations that have
been in place long before the Mississippi Canyon was even put out to lease.

The existing rules and regulations required these studies before leases were let and
before drilling started in the Mississippi Canyon. These existing regulations require that:
exploration plans must be prepared and approved (30 C.F.R. 0x00A7 250.211-118); development and
production plans must be prepared and approved (30 C.F.R. 0x00A7 250.241-262); deepwater
operations plans must be prepared and approved (30 C.F.R. 0x00A7 250.286-295); well drilling design
criteria must be prepared and approved (30 C.F.R. 0x00A7 250.413); a detailed drilling prognosis must
be prepared and approved (30 C.F.R. 0x00A7 250.414); a casing and cementing program must be
prepared and approved (30 C.F.R. 0x00A7 250.415); diverter and BOP systems must be approved (30
C.F.R. 0x00A7 250.416); an application for a permit for drilling must be prepared and approved (30
C.F.R. 0x00A7 250.418); if a MODU is used, it must meet rigorous inspection requirements (30 C.F.R.

0x00A7 250.417); reservoir testing must be submitted and approved. (30 CER. 0x00A7250.407). A drilling

 

? Defendants' Opposition to Plaintiffs' Motion for Preliminary Injunction at p. 24 (DOC # 28)
Case 2:10-cv-01663-MLCF-JCW Document 53 Filed 06/20/10 Page 10 of 17

moratorium simply is not necessary to enforce the extensive rules and regulations already in
place.

The State's Gulf Economic Survival Team (GEST) was formed at the request of
Governor Jindal to specifically address alternatives to the drilling moratortum. GEST
recommends that the moratorium could be reduced to thirty days through a more efficient

procedure. GEST's recommendations include:

@ Minerals Management Service inspectors maintain a full-time presence on all ongoing
deepwater drilling locations, with all MMS inspection reports reviewed by the U.S.
Coast Guard;

(R) strict compliance with American Petroleum Institute (API) standards on all equipment
used in well construction;

(R) implement all of the prescriptive safety recommendations as set forth in the DOI safety
report which can be implemented within 30 days;

e Re-certify all BOP equipment used in floating drilling operations and ensure their
suitability for the rig and well design;

e Ensure rig personnel are trained to industry- and government-accepted standards for well-
control procedures;

e Review operator well plans, with particular emphasis on casing and cementing designs to
ensure sufficient pressure barriers and that designs are fit for purpose;

e After confirming the correctness and preparedness of each rig and well design, these
deepwater rigs should be permitted to resume work, and the DOI should resume issuing
permits for new deepwater work. Meanwhile, industry and government can work through
additional recommendations outlined in DOI's Safety Report.

In essence, the State of Louisiana believes that with strict enforcement of the rules and
regulations already in place and by immediately implementing the recommendations in the
DOI's Safety Report which can be implemented within 30 days, deepwater drilling may
promptly resume in a reasonably safe manner.

The Director of GEST, Louisiana's Lt. Governor Scott Angelle, has obtained 144,586
signatures on a petition asking Defendants to lift the moratorium. Many of these are the owners

of the small businesses affected by the moratorium, who Defendants failed to consider as

10
