Great Lakes Exploration Group LLC v. Unidentified Wrecked and (For Sa...bandoned Sailing Vessel, The

Doc. 50

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN
Northern Division
GREAT LAKES EXPLORATION GROUP LLC
Plaintiff,
v.
The Unidentified, Wrecked and (For SalvageRight Purposes), Abandoned Sailing Vessel, etc.
Defendant, et al.

)
)
) Civil Action No. 1:04-CV-375
)
) HON. ROBERT HOLMES BELL
)
)

PLAINTIFF GREAT LAKES EXPLORATIONS’ REPLY IN SUPPORT OF
MOTION TO AMEND PROTECTIVE ORDER
PRELIMINARY STATEMENT
Intervenors’ Opposition to Plaintiff Great Lakes Exploration’s Motion to Amend
Protective Order1 underscores precisely why the Court should grant the Motion. While
Intervenors have called their filing a “Reply to Motion For Protective Order,” the Court
has already entered a protective order. The issue is not whether there should be a
protective order, but instead, whether it should be amended.
Indeed, in their prior filings, Intervenors have acknowledged the need for a
protective order, even proposing their own version to the Court. If Intervenors had
desired to oppose the existence of a protective order, it was incumbent on them to file a
timely motion to alter or amend. They did not do so. This Reply, therefore, focuses on
the sole issue before the Court—whether the Protective Order should be amended.
As discussed below, Intervenors “Reply” reflects a good faith misunderstanding
of the law applicable to trade secrets in three2 respects. First, Intervenors’ Reply springs

1

Intervenors have named their response a “Reply to Motion of Protective Order.”
In the hope of contributing to a reasoned analysis of the issues in spite of the stream-of-consciousness,
shotgun structure of Intervenors’ Reply, Great Lakes has organized Intervenors’ arguments into three
categories. Great Lakes hopes that this structure may assist the Court’s analysis of the issues, and
2

Dockets.Justia.com

from the mistaken belief that “compelling circumstances” are required for protecting
trade secrets under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. See Interv. Reply at 3. As Fed.
R. Civ. P. 26(c) makes clear, the standard is “good cause.”
Second, Intervenors’ Reply erroneously assumes that admiralty law has somehow
displaced the law of trade secrets. As discussed below, admiralty law does not displace
the law of trade secrets; to the contrary, it recognizes the importance of protecting trade
secrets and confidential information.
Third, Intervenors’ Reply stems from a confused premise that the Fourteenth
Amendment prohibition on governmental takings amounts to a “preemptive injunction on
the enforcement of criminal laws.”
1. Intervenors’ Reply Misapprehends the Standard For Issuing a Protective Order.
a.

The Rule 26(c) Standard for Trade Secret Protection Is “Good Cause,”
Not “Compelling Circumstances.”

The starting premise of Intervenors’ Reply is its description of the standard for
determining the scope and protections of a protective order.

This standard, say

Intervenors, is that “A party seeking a protective order under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c) bears
the burden of demonstrating those compelling reasons.” Interv. Reply at 3. Based on this
premise, Intervenors’ Reply asserts that Great Lakes Exploration’s Motion makes no
provision for a determination of compelling circumstances.
Fed. R. 26(c) governs the standard for a protective order. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c).
The Rule does not require the existence of “compelling circumstances.” The standard
under Rule 26(c), instead, is “good cause.” Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c).

apologizes to the Court in advance if it has not fully understood, or has inadvertently not addressed, all the
shotgun arguments that Intervenors are trying to assert.

2

Still, Intervenors’ Reply suggests that the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
has somehow re-written the plain language of the “good cause” standard under Rule
26(c) to mean, instead, “compelling circumstances”. See Interv. Reply at 3. Oddly, the
lone Sixth Circuit authority cited by Intervenors—an unpublished decision—nowhere
mentions a requirement that the movant prove “compelling circumstances.” In its
published decisions, the Sixth Circuit has left no doubt that it intends to honor the plain
language of the “good cause” standard under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c). E.g. Rolex v.
Crowley, 74 F.3d. 716 (6th Cir. 1996) (“The Crowleys argue that Rolex failed to bear its
burden under Fed. R. Civ. P. Rule 26(c) of showing good cause to preclude a deposition
of Mulrooney…..We find no error in the district court's decision to grant a protective
order prohibiting Mulrooney's deposition.”).

See generally Seattle Times Co. v.

Rhinehart, 467 U.S. 20, 36 (1984); MILLER & WRIGHT, FEDERAL PRACTICE AND
PROCEDURE, Civil § 2036, at 489 (2d ed. 1994) ("Thus, a court may be as inventive as
the necessities of a particular case require in order to achieve the benign purposes of the
rule.") 3
b.

The Amendment Proposed By Plaintiff Allows Intervenors to Contest
“Good Cause.”

Reading between the lines of Intervenors’ Response, it appears that Intervenors are
rhetorically asserting that under the amendment proposed by Great Lakes Exploration,
“Left unanswered by the [present] motion is what discovery requests and information will
be controlled by the permanent restrictions Plaintiff now requests and why?”

3

By way of example, to help avoid fraudulent claims of independent development, the court may order the
parties to simultaneously file documents or information in sealed envelopes, to be opened as directed by the
Court. See Rule 26(c)(8).

3

Intervenors’ Reply, itself, answers both the question of “what discovery requests” and
“why”, since it attaches the Intervenors’ Request to Produce. A simple reading of the
Request shows that it calls for every document and trade secret owned by Great Lakes
Exploration, such as “any records and documents relating to” the exploration of the
Defendant by Great Lakes Exploration and the Field Museum. See e.g. RTP #1, 5. This
includes, as well, “all records and materials, including side scan sonar and magnetic data,
unedited photos used to establish a mosaic, a scaled site map and field notes generated to
date in the process of creating a photomosaic and mapping of the entire debris field of the
shipwreck….” Id. #14. As if seeking every trade secret and documents in any way
“relating to” the exploration and research for the Defendant were not enough, Intervenors
do not even limit their discovery to the Defendant, and ask, instead, for all “records,
including documentation and reports, of the research, search, survey and other salvage
operations…including all potential candidates for the site(s) within the designated area,
and all side scan sonar imagery, magnetic data, GPS positioning, research vessel logs and
archaeological field notes and descriptions of salvage operations.” RTP #6. Still
dissatisfied with such a broad fishing net, Intervenors even request information pertaining
to any artifacts, whether associated with the Defendant or not, asking for all “maps and
documentation of artifacts lying within the 3 1/2 mile radius area identified in the
complaint.” Id. 19.
Under the amendment proposed by Great Lakes Exploration, at the time of producing
a document to Intervenors, Great Lakes Exploration is required to specify whether it
contains trade secrets. If Great Lakes makes such a designation, Intervenors may then
dispute it if they wish to do so.

4

c.

The Amendment on Production of Trade Secrets Other Than Location Is
Needed Only If the Court Desires That Great Lakes Exploration Produce
Information Other Than the Precise Location of the Shipwreck.

Intervenors’ Reply reflects some confusion about the circumstances that would
require an amendment regarding the scope of trade secret protection. Great Lakes
Exploration asks the Court to broaden the scope only if the Court desires that it produce
trade secrets to Intervenors other than the location of the shipwreck. If only the location
of the shipwreck is to be produced, then the current scope of the Order is satisfactory.
Great Lakes has respectfully asked for the Court’s guidance.
2.

Intervenors’ Reply Mistakenly Assumes That the Law Governing
Historic Shipwrecks Displaces the Law Governing Trade Secrets.

Intervenors’ Reply also mistakes the basis for the protective order. Contrary to the
assumption in the Reply, see Reply at 7, admiralty law does not displace either the
general rules of trade secret protection or the specific “good cause” standard under Fed.
R. Civ. P. 26(c).4
Reflecting this misconception, Intervenors’ Reply references RMS Titanic, Inc. v.
Haver, 173 F.3d 943, 976-70 (4th Cir. 1999) for the assertion that the Court of Appeals
“expressly rejected” “the claimed right to appropriate intellectual information about a
wreck.” A simple reading of the case (and the numerous other reported cases on the
background of that litigation) discloses that it had nothing to do with entry of a Fed. R.
Civ. P. 26(c) Protective Order protecting trade secrets—let alone that it purported to
“expressly reject” the Court’s decision on the nature of proprietary information in
Columbus-America Discovery Group, Inc. v. The Unidentified, Wrecked and Abandoned

4

Also contrary to the apparent assumption in the Reply, even if it were contended that the “good cause”
standard under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c) were in conflict with the State’s claim to its bottomlands, the Federal
Rule would not be superseded. U.S. Const. Art. VI (federal supremacy clause).

5

Sailing Vessel, 1989 AMC 1955 (E.D. Va. June 30, 1989). Haver was not even an appeal
in the Columbus-America case, and the issue before the Court in Haver was not trade
secret protection of documents under Rule 26, but instead whether under salvage law,
RMS Titanic, Inc. could prevent the rest of the world from taking photographs of the
shipwreck (provided that this could be accomplished without interference with the
salvage effort in that case).
Neither the Haver Court, nor any other Court has suggested, let alone held, that
salvage law somehow displaces trade secret law.

Contrary to the predicate of

Intervenors’ Reply, “good cause” remains the standard for protecting trade secrets and
confidential documents pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c).
3.

Intervenors’ Reply Confuses The Fourteenth Amendment Proscription
Against Governmental Takings With Preemptive Injunctions Against
Enforcement of Criminal Law.
Finally, Intervenors’ Reply asserts that Great Lakes Exploration’s Motion to

Amend ”is for preemptive injunction against enforcement of criminal laws.” Reply at 9.
A simple reading of the proposed amendment shows that it does not enjoin the State from
enforcing its criminal laws.
To the contrary, there is nothing inconsistent between Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c), on the
one hand, and police power of the State’s police power, on the other. The U.S. Supreme
Court has approved the constitutionality of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Just as
there is nothing inconsistent between the State’s police power and the fruit-of-the
poisonous tree doctrine and other exclusionary rules, so too, there is nothing
unconstitutional about Rule 26(c). See generally Seattle Times Co. v. Rhinehart, 467

6

U.S. at 36 (“The unique character of the discovery process requires that the trial court
have substantial latitude to fashion protective orders.")
It is puzzling, in this regard, to read the protest in Intervenors’ Reply that “Unlike
Plaintiff, Intervenors have presented only public information to the court,” Reply at 8,
since a simple reading of the materials in question will permit the Court to determine the
facts. See e.g. Reply to Plaintiff’s Response to Motion to Dismiss, Exhibit 1 at 2, 4
(Affidavit of John Halsey dated April 29, 2005, not October 14, 2004) at 45; Intervenors’
Reply to Plaintiff’s Response to Motion to Dismiss dated May 2, 2005 at 4, 7. While it
may be too much, in what, unfortunately, seems to have become an adversarial
proceeding, to hope for a candid acknowledgement, or perhaps even an apology to the
Court if not to Great Lakes, it is especially troubling that Intervenors have apparently not
seen fit to address their communication regarding their intent to take Great Lakes
Exploration’s information, or even, at a minimum, to provide the Court with the official
communications they have received from the U.S. Department of State about the
Republic of France’s refutation of Intervenors’ claims regarding the Griffin, and
concomitantly France’s understandable desire that the Court permit the expedition to go
forward without further delay.6
In sum, the Court should amend the Order to restrict use of the information in
question to the current proceeding, and thereby obviate the need for wasteful and entirely

5

As previously noted, Exhibit 1 to the Intervenors May 2, 2005 Reply to Plaintiff’s Response to Motion to
Dismiss (typographically mis-labeled by Great Lakes in its Memorandum in Support of Motion to Amend
as “Exhibit 1 (Affidavit of Wayne Lusardi) instead of “Exhibit 1 (Affidavit of John Halsey)” was filed
after the Court’s February 2, 2005 Order on Sealing.
6
In the first instance, Great Lakes Exploration had hoped that the duty of candor might induce Intervenors
to share the facts with the Court. Since Intervenors have apparently chosen not to do so, Great Lakes
Exploration is providing the latest communication from the U.S. Department of State on behalf of the
Republic of France under a separate filing with the Court.

7

unnecessary collateral litigation over whether the Order permits a governmental taking.7
See Ruckelshaus v. Monsanto Co., 467 U.S. 986, 1003, 104 S. Ct. 2862, 2873 (1984).
CONCLUSION
The Court should amend the Protective Order.
Respectfully submitted,
GREAT LAKES EXPLORATION GROUP LLC
By:__Richard T. Robol___________
Of Counsel
Richard T. Robol (OH- 0064345)
ROBOL & WINKLER LLC
555 City Park Avenue
Columbus, Oh 43215
Telephone: (614) 559-3839
Facsimile: (614) 559-3846
rrobol@columbuscounsel.com

__Roger Boer____________________
Of Counsel
Roger Boer, Esq.
161 Ottawa Avenue N.W.
Suite 600
Grand Rapids, MI 49503
Telephone. (616) 233-5136
Facsimile: (616) 459-5102

ATTORNEYS FOR PLAINTIFFS

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on this 12th day of August, 2005, a copy of the foregoing was
served by electronic mail via the Court’s ECF system upon all counsel of record.
_Richard T. Robol_______________
Of Counsel

7

Intervenors’ stream-of-consciousness Reply is crammed with other arguments and conclusory assertions
(e.g. that Great Lakes Exploration has failed to produce documents as to which there is not trade secret
claim; that the court “may lose admiralty jurisdiction based upon sovereign immunity” for foreign vessels;
and that “Plaintiff cannot assert the proprietary rights of a third party,” Reply at 2, 8 n.7).While such
assertions, too, appear to spring from a series of misconceptions of the applicable law, they are not
addressed in this Reply since they are beyond the scope of the issue presented by the pending Motion to
Amend. If and when such claims are asserted through a proper procedure, they will be addressed in due
course.

8

