Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145

Filed 10/08/10 Page 1 of 18 PageID #: 1060

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA
AT CLARKSBURG

WALHONDE TOOLS, INC.,

Plaintiff,
v.

CIVIL ACTION NO. 1:09-CV-00048

WILSON WORKS, INC.,
a West Virginia Corporation; and
NORTHCO CORP.,
a West Virginia Corporation; and
NAES POWER CONTRACTORS, INC.,
successor by merger to American Boiler & Chimney
Company, a Washington Corporation; and
MINNOTTE CONTRACTING CORPORATION,
a Pennsylvania Corporation; and
FOSTER WHEELER ZACK, INC.,
a Delaware Corporation; and
DAY & ZIMMERMANN NPS, INC.,
a Delaware Corporation,
Defendants,

PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE
PLAINTIFF’S MARKMAN RESPONSE BRIEFS

Comes now, Plaintiff Walhonde Tools, Inc (hereafter “Walhonde” or “Plaintiff”), by
counsel, to file herein Plaintiff’s Response to a Motion (DE 143) by some of the Defendants in
this matter seeking to strike the Plaintiff’s three Markman Response Briefs, filed in response to
Markman Briefs filed by three of the Defendants.
The Motion should be denied as it is clear from the Scheduling Order and the Briefs
themselves that the Plaintiff’s three Response Brief submissions are exactly that which is called
for in the Scheduling Order, and there is no compelling reason to allow the Defendants to change

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145

Filed 10/08/10 Page 2 of 18 PageID #: 1061

the rules after the fact to the detriment of the Plaintiff. Further basis for this conclusion is set
forth below.

I. THE PLAINTIFF COMPLIED WITH THE SCHEDULING ORDER
BY FILING RESPONSE BRIEFS TO OPPOSE CLAIM CONSTRUCTIONS
OFFERED BY THE DEFENDANTS AND POINTING OUT
WHY THOSE CONSTRUCTIONS ARE LEGALLY DEFICIENT

By the filing of the present Motion, the Defendants are seeking to re-write the Court’s
Scheduling Order to include new requirements for Response Briefs that were never adopted and
are only now being suggested after-the-fact by the Defendants. The structure that was adopted by
the Court in the September 18, 2009 Scheduling Order (DE 76) was endorsed and recommended
to the Court by all of the parties to this matter after extensive telephone discussions among
counsel. All of the Defendants agreed that the structure to be adopted with respect to claim
construction in this matter was that any party could set forth any argument that one or more
terms should have a special meaning or construction in a Markman Brief to be submitted on
September 1, 2010, along with whatever legal arguments the party wished to advance in support
of the constructions. Thereafter, if any other party wished to oppose the claim constructions
offered on September 1 by other parties, the opposing party may file a Response Brief by
September 15 along with any appropriate legal argument and authorities in support of that
party’s opposing viewpoint. It now appears, that the Defendants, in retrospect, have decided
they do not like the structure previously agreed to and would like to impose greater restrictions
on the Response briefing. The reason for the Defendants’ change of position appears to be the
fact that the Plaintiff is the only party to file actual Response Briefs that address the deficiencies
of the construction offerings of others.

2

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145

Filed 10/08/10 Page 3 of 18 PageID #: 1062

The primary argument advanced by the Defendants in the present motion is that by
choosing not to identify a set of terms to be specially construed in a Markman Brief on
September 1, a party is estopped from filing a Response Brief to take exception to any other term
construction that other parties have proposed. The assertion is nonsensical and not supported by
the Scheduling Order entered by the Court. Regardless of whether or not a party chooses to
identify terms that it believes should be construed a certain way, the party certainly has the right
under the Scheduling Order entered in this case to oppose other constructions of other terms set
forth by the other parties. At no time, was there ever a pre-requisite that in order to respond in
opposition to a party’s constructions, the opposing party must have set forth other terms for
construction.
The Scheduling Order was adopted by this Court on September 18, 2009 and it included
absolutely no language limiting the filing of a Response Brief to certain circumstances, as the
Defendants now argue. See Scheduling Order, DE 76. Moreover, the new limitations being
proposed in the Defendants’ Motion are nonsensical on their face. Under the structure that was
adopted, the parties did not meet and confer to determine a joint set of terms that all parties
would offer constructions for and file as a joint matrix. Rather, under the structure adopted in
the Scheduling Order, any party could argue that one or more terms should have a special
construction separate from the ordinary and customary usage of the term, and if a party chooses
to make such an argument, that argument should have been set forth in a Markman brief on
September 1. Id. Accordingly, under this structure, each party could end up identifying separate
terms that the other parties did not identify. Conversely, it could also be the case that two or
more parties could choose the same term that they believe needs to be construed and offer
conflicting constructions while the other parties are silent as to that particular term.

3

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145

Filed 10/08/10 Page 4 of 18 PageID #: 1063

Alternatively, it could also be the case that two parties happen to agree that a particular term
needs to be construed and the two parties offer similar or identical constructions for that term
while yet other parties either offer something totally different or do not identify that term at all.
Since the structure adopted in this case provided no mechanism for the parties to agree in
advance on a specific set of terms to be construed, an infinite number of possibilities existed.
Seven separate parties were free to identify terms that should be given a special construction, and
set that construction forth for the first time on September 1. However, there was no requirement
that all parties must identify terms that they believe need special constructions. A party may feel
that no special constructions are necessary.
On September 1, three parties set forth Markman briefs arguing that certain terms should
be construed in particular ways. Defendant NAES set forth a brief that argued for four specific
terms to be specially construed. Defendant Minnotte argued for much more extensive special
constructions, while Wilson Works literally argued that every word of every claim needed to be
specially construed. The other parties – including the Plaintiff – did not set forth any terms that
should be specially construed. There was absolutely no requirement that any party had to set
forth a brief on September 1 identifying any particular term, and it was a perfectly legitimate
choice for a party to conclude that no terms are confusing such that a construction by the Court is
necessary. This is the choice made by the Plaintiff. The Defendants now make the unsupported
argument that the Scheduling Order prohibits a party from responding in opposition to another
party unless they set forth terms of their own for construction, and the argument has no merit as
the Scheduling Order sets forth no such requirement.
It is a long settled canon of patent law that “words and phrases in a patent claim are
generally given their ordinary and customary meaning.” U.S. Surgical Corp. v. Ethicon, Inc.,

4

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145

Filed 10/08/10 Page 5 of 18 PageID #: 1064

102 F.3d 1554, 1568 (Fed. Cir. 1997) & Biotec Biologische Naturverpackungen Gmbh & Co.
KG v. Biocorp, Inc., 249 F.3d 1341, 1349 (Fed. Cir. 2001). If the meaning of a term is clear on
its face, the discussion ends. If a term is clear on its face, there is nothing to construe. Claim
terms should be construed according to their ordinary and customary meaning. It is the
Plaintiff’s contention that the words and phrases in the ‘500 patent are clear and evident on their
face such that no special meaning or special claim construction by the Court is necessary. In
each of the claim construction Response Briefs filed by the Plaintiff, this position is clearly and
consistently stated. DE 140, pg. 14; DE 141, Appendix A; DE 142, pg. 12. As this Court has
previously noted, “the determination of a special meaning of a claim is only necessary when the
scope is not otherwise evident”. Wyeth v. Mylan, Inc,. No.: 1:07-cv-91, 2009 US District. Lexis
43800, at *7 (N.D. W. Va. May 22, 2009).
The Defendants appear to be in conflict with each other regarding basic claim
construction principles. Defendant NAES argued that four specific terms from the ‘500 patent
should be given specific constructions, and while the Plaintiff takes exception to those
constructions, it appears at least that NAES understands that the purpose of claim construction is
only to construe those terms that are not otherwise clear on their face in the context of the patent.
Defendant Wilson Works, however, took a radically different approach that every single word of
every single claim of the ‘500 patent must be given a specialized construction in a claim
construction proceeding. DE 133
In the event that the parties and the Court had intended that every party must set forth an
initial brief identifying a specific construction for every single word and phrase of the patent
claims, such a structure would have been specifically identified in the Scheduling Order. Id. In
addition, the Plaintiff would have never recommended such an absurd Markman structure.

5

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145

Filed 10/08/10 Page 6 of 18 PageID #: 1065

Rather, the structure adopted here is one wherein a party may (or may not) offer specific
constructions of specific terms that it contends need to be construed by the Court. The argument
that a party may not file a Response Brief in opposition to other parties unless the opposer had
first asserted that other terms need to be construed is wholly absent from the Scheduling Order
and represents a recent afterthought by some of the Defendants who now wish for a different
structure. In the Motion, the Defendants complain that the structure does not afford them a
Reply Brief to counter the opposing Response Briefs. Although this is true, this is precisely the
structure that all of the parties, including the Defendants, agreed to. Any party can offer a
special construction for a term or phrase asking that it be given something other than its ordinary
and customary meaning, and then any other party can file a Response Brief in opposition.
The Defendants’ present motion also complains that the Plaintiff included sections in its
three separate Response Briefs in which it identified legal support (case law) and a factual
background that discussed the patent. Motion, para 29-31. Yet, there is absolutely nothing in
the Scheduling Order adopted for this case that limits, prevents or discourages factual and legal
arguments in either the opening or response briefs. In fact, if an opposition response brief is
going to be effective in persuading the Court that a particular construction is incorrect, the
opposing party must be able to support its opposition opinion with citations to the patent
specification and to established legal principles of claim construction. This is precisely what the
Plaintiff did. The current Motion makes the absurd argument, without support, that legal
references are not appropriate in a Response Brief. Id.
A discussion of claim construction legal principles is particularly important in this
particular case when a party sets forth a claim construction that violates generally accepted claim
construction principles. The notion that a Response Brief should be devoid of legal and factual

6

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145

Filed 10/08/10 Page 7 of 18 PageID #: 1066

arguments is absurd and there is certainly no suggestion of any such limitation anywhere in the
Scheduling Order.

II. PLAINTIFF’S THREE RESPONSE BRIEFS ARE LIMITED
TO SPECIFIC REBUTTAL ARGUMENTS FOR THE SPECIFIC
CONSTRUCTIONS OFFERED BY EACH DEFENDANT

Because each of the three Defendant briefs submitted on September 1 took radically
different approaches and set forth completely different – often conflicting – arguments from each
other, the Plaintiff needed to set forth three separate Response Briefs. The current Motion
asserts that the Plaintiff’s Response Briefs are improper because in the cases in which the
Plaintiff opposes a Defendant offering, the Plaintiff explains why and states a specific alternative
construction, i.e., the plain and ordinary meaning of the terms be used as the proper construction.
See, Motion, para 40-43. However, this is precisely the purpose of a Response Brief. The
Plaintiff set forth its opposing construction and argument for the specific term proposed by the
Defendant, and argued for construing the terms in keeping with the plain meaning of the words
in the context of the patent. The arguments and alternatives set forth by the Plaintiff in each
Response Brief are limited strictly to the terms identified in each Defendant Brief and the
support for each rebuttal is spelled out thoroughly. The Defendants suggest that the Plaintiff
exceeded the scope of rebuttal, but the Defendants failed to identify even a single example in
which the Plaintiff offered a construction argument for any word or phrase that was not
specifically in opposition to the Defendants construction of the identical word or phrase.
Turning to specifics, Defendant NAES, in its Markman brief idenitifed four terms and
phrases that it believes should be construed by the Court and the legal and factual basis for the
same. In response, the scope of Plaintiff’s response was properly limited to addressing each of
7

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145

Filed 10/08/10 Page 8 of 18 PageID #: 1067

those NAES arguments for each of those terms, and argued nothing more. The Plaintiff made no
argument in its NAES response concerning other terms and phrases aside from those NAES had
identified for construction. It is particularly telling that in the present Motion, the Defendants
wholly failed to identify even a single instance where the Plaintiff exceeded the proper scope of
the Response Brief by proposing claim terms in excess to that which were set forth by NAES.
Minnotte and Wilson Works set forth claim construction charts in which they essentially
identify almost every word of every claim as needing construction either alone or in combination
with other words or phrases. The Plaintiff provided a response brief to Minnotte and a separate
response brief to Wilson Works because the constructions offered by those two parties for the
exact same phrase varied significantly. In the Response Briefs, Plaintiff even adopted the same
brief structure chosen by the respective defendant, i.e. - a chart in which the Plaintiff set forth a
responsive detailed three column chart showing: 1) the term or phrase construed by the
Defendant; 2) the Minnotte (or Wilson) construction and its supporting arguments, and; 3) the
Plaintiff’s response and supporting arguments and citations.
Indeed, with respect to the Minnotte response, the Plaintiff found that in many
circumstances, the Plaintiff actually agreed with Minnotte’s proposed construction. DE 141,
Appendix. In these situations, the Plaintiff simply noted in its Response Brief that it was in
agreement with the Minotte construction. Id. In contrast, the Wilson Works’ construction
featured generally un-supported and often incomprehensable constructions that have no support
in the specification or the law, and which are easily debunked. It is important to note, however,
that in each case, the Plaintiff specifically responded to only the phrase combinations offered by
the Defendant. In no case, did the Plaintiff offer new combinations of words for constructions
along with arguments for something that was not addressed by the particular Defendant to which

8

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145

Filed 10/08/10 Page 9 of 18 PageID #: 1068

it was responding. The current Motion makes the assertion that the Plaintiff exceeded the scope
of the Response Brief but fails to point to even one specific example in which the Plaintiff
offered a construction for a term that had not been argued by that defendant. See Motion, para
35. In fact, the best that these Defendants can do in the Motion is to assert that a discussion of
the patent background and core legal principles constitutes an improper scope for a Response
Brief. Id. at 29-31. Defendants’ argument simply has no merit.
The Motion correctly notes that the Plaintiff’s position is that the terms of the patent
should be given their plain, ordinary and customary meaning. Motion, para 33. Then, the
Defendants state that in order to assert that the plain meaning of a term should be used rather
than what the Defendants propose, the Plaintiff had to state that principle of law in an initial
brief, rather that saying so in a Response Brief. To do so, however, the Plaintiff would have had
to be able to predict in advance what terms one or more the Defendants would seek to impose a
bizarre or non-ordinary construction for, and then state in advance that the ordinary and
customary meaning of that phrase should be used instead. Clearly, the only interpretation of the
Scheduling Order that makes sense is that after a party places a particular term in dispute and
asserts that the particular term meaning should be altered from its ordinary and customary
meaning, any party who opposes that view should state its objection and identify an argument to
the contrary in a response brief. That is precisely what the Plaintiff did, and that is what the
parties agreed to when this Scheduling Order was put together in 2009. The simple fact the
Defendants now regret that we did not build in a reply brief opportunity does not merit reading in
new definitions of what constitutes a proper response brief.1

1

It is also important to note that none of the current movants have sought Leave to file a Reply Brief, or contacted
the Plaintiff to suggest that it believed that something in the Plaintiff’s Response should entitle that party to do so.

9

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145 Filed 10/08/10 Page 10 of 18 PageID #:
1069

III.

ALTHOUGH PLAINTIFF FILED ITS RESPONSIVE BRIEFS A FEW
HOURS BEYOND THE MIDNIGHT DEADLINE, PLAINTIFF HAD GOOD
CAUSE FOR THE LATE FILING AND DEFENDANTS WERE NOT
PREJUDICED IN ANY WAY

The only assertion advanced by the Defendants in the current Motion that is accurate is
the assertion that the Plaintiff’s three Response Briefs were filed slightly late, arriving through
the ECF system in the early morning of September 16, just past the midnight deadline of
September 15. The lateness is de minimus, and occurred due to an unexpected computer issue
that the Plaintiff experienced during the finalizing of the three briefs which caused the briefs to
have to be re-created during the night of September 15. This incident is detailed in an affidavit
set forth as an attachment to this response as Exhibit A, Affidavit of Cheryl R. Winn.
As pointed out earlier, three separate Defendants had set forth three separate and widely
differing Markman positions on September 1. Accordingly, the Plaintiff’s responses had to be
tailored to each Defendant’s position, requiring three separate and extensive briefs. Moreover,
the three Defendants in question set forth entirely different terms for construction, and two of
them – Minnotte and Wilson Works – set forth constructions that greatly conflict with each
other. In fact, the Plaintiff found that it agreed with many of the specific constructions Minnotte
proposed, while Wilson Works generally had unsupportable positions that conflicted with the
Minnotte and Plaintiff position. Accordingly, in terms of Response Briefs, the Plaintiff had three
to prepare with only portions of the general patent specification background and claim
construction legal principles being applicable to all three. Since the Minnotte and Wilson Works
constructions were so extensive, a specific Appendix, over 30 pages in length, was prepared for
each that compared and contrasted the respective positions of the Plaintiff and Defendant along
with appropriate identification of citation from the patent specification.

10

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145 Filed 10/08/10 Page 11 of 18 PageID #:
1070

As set forth in the attached affidavit of Cheryl Winn, an attorney with the Plaintiff’s legal
team, the Response Briefs became corrupted and damaged through a computer malfunctioning
on September 15, such that they each had to be re-typed and extensively repaired. Exhibit A,
para 4. This event was sudden and unexpected. Id. Due to the size of the documents in
question, the re-producing of the Briefs and Appendices took many hours of time, extending
slightly beyond midnight. Id., para 5. As each document was repaired, it was promptly filed
electronically in the early morning hours of September 16, while each of the Defendant counsel
(presumably) rested comfortably in their beds. Id. In any event, the briefs were re-created, filed
and delivered via the ECF system to the Defendants prior to the start of business hours on
September 16. Indeed, unless the Defendants were waiting at midnight on September 15 to
review the briefs, they received the briefs at the same time they would have had the briefs been
filed a few hours earlier at midnight.
Given that the lateness was both de minimus and caused by an unexpected catastrophe,
the Plaintiff respectfully asks that the technical non-compliance with the filing deadline be
excused. Although the Defendants point out the technical violation in their current Motion, they
are able to assert no prejudice to their case caused by the ECF filing occurring in the early
morning hours of September 16. The Motion does not even attempt to allege any type of
prejudice by this late filing. Moreover, given that the Defendants’ Markman Briefs also included
an assortment of technical deficiencies as set forth in the next section, they should not be allowed
to reap a windfall due to de minimus lateness, precipitated by an unexpected technical difficulty
experienced by the Plaintiff. The draconian relief of striking Plaintiff’s Response Briefs should

11

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145 Filed 10/08/10 Page 12 of 18 PageID #:
1071

not be granted, particularly in light of the request being made by Defendants with unclean hands
with respect to Rules compliance.2
IV.

PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSE BRIEFS PROVIDE THE ONLY PROPER
RESPONSES THAT COMPARE AND CONTRAST COMPETING
ARGUMENTS OF THE PARTIES
The current motion by the Defendants collectively seeks to strike the Plaintiff’s three

Response Briefs in which the legal errors and inconsistencies of opposing briefs are discussed
and contrasted. Curiously, the Plaintiff’s brief are the ONLY briefs that actually constitute a
responsive pleading. The Motion in paragraph 6 states that Defendants Minnotte and Wilson
Works filed Response Briefs, but a closer look at these alleged Response Briefs (DE 138 & DE
139) shows they are not Response Briefs at all. Despite the fact that Minnotte and Wilson Works
have taken conflicting positions on a variety of claim terms, these alleged “Response Briefs” do
not address these conflicts at all. As such, the Plaintiff’s briefs are the only Response Briefs that
actually provided a response in keeping with the intent and purpose of a response brief, while the
Minnotte and Wilson Works responses address no claim conflicts at all.
For many of the construction offerings, the Plaintiff’s response that the plain meaning of
the term should be used is consistent with the Minnotte construction, and at variance with that of
Wilson Works. In response to the construction offerings of each Defendant, the Plaintiff
consistently stated that it believed the term should be given its plain and ordinary meaning. For
example, the following chart (on the next page) contrasts the construction offerings of a
particular phrase from Claim 1 of the patent, and shows the Plaintiff’s response along with the
two inconsistent construction offerings of defendants Minnotte and Wilson Works:

2

The Motion cites the case of Coupled Products, LLC v. Nobel Automotive Mexico, LLC, No. 09-cv-0323, WL
2035829 (W.D. La. 2010) for support, but that case is clearly off point as it involved a deliberate violation of a very
specific Scheduling Order, and wherein a specified group of claim terms had been agreed upon in advance.

12

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145 Filed 10/08/10 Page 13 of 18 PageID #:
1072

claim term: “one of said clamp members including a
threaded bore extending therethrough”

Minnotte Construction

Plaintiff’s Response to
Minnotte
“...internally threaded bore 64 The Plaintiff agrees that based
[sic, the correct element
on the plain meaning and
number is 66 as shown in Fig. specification, this term should
2] in clamp member 24 (col. 3, be interpreted as:
lines 34-35)
a threaded bore that extends
Based on the plain meaning
through the clamp member.
and specification, this term
should be interpreted as a
threaded bore that extends
through the clamp member.

Wilson Works’ Claim Terms
One of the clamp members
has a hole with its boundary
defined by threading, the hole
and its threading cut into the
clamp member and extending
from one side to the other.

The Response Briefs filed by the Plaintiff are the only documents that address and
contrast differences in construction, and instances in which a party objects to a proposed
construction that is at variance with the ordinary and customary usage of the term. As such, the
Plaintiff’s have kept with the spirit and intent of the Markman Briefing Schedule and provided
information and argument upon which a decision can be rendered, in contrast to the Defendant
Briefs that are not properly responsive, as required.

V.

THE DEFENDANTS MOTION SHOULD ALSO BE DENIED AS THE
DEFENDANTS THEMSELVES HAVE BEEN NON-COMPLIANT

The collective Motion by the Defendants also claims falsely that all parties, including the
Plaintiff were obligated to file a Markman Brief, and that all instances of “means plus” claim
language must be addressed. See, Motion, para 2, 37 and 38. Yet, the Motion fails to point out
13

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145 Filed 10/08/10 Page 14 of 18 PageID #:
1073

that Defendant NAES likewise did not address all instances of “means plus” claiming in its brief.
NAES only offered constructions for one of the many “means plus” claims in its brief.3
Moreover, NAES is a party to the current Motion wherein the Plaintiff is criticized for the same
thing, and NAES apparently does not see the hypocrisy in that position.
The Minnotte Markman Brief is also totally non-compliant with the Scheduling Order
because it is not a Markman Brief at all. Rather, Minnotte set forth a two-page introduction that
includes no legal authorities or discussion whatsoever, and an Appendix that proposes
constructions, with little or no discussion of the basis for that construction. That hardly qualifies
as a Markman Brief. The Wilson Works Markman Brief is much worse, in that nearly the entire
Brief is dedicated to various invalidity arguments Wilson Works wishes to advance. That would
be fine in a Motion for Summary Judgment due to Invalidity, but it has no place in Markman
briefing. As such, they have failed to comply with the spirit of a Markman proceeding as well as
the Scheduling Order itself.
The Plaintiff has noted, where appropriate, in its Response Briefs where particular
Defendants did not fully comply with the Rules or offered a half-baked or misplaced argument.
However, the Plaintiff did not move to Strike the opposing parties briefs due to non-compliance
with the Scheduling Order or Markman standards, as the Plaintiff believes that the Court’s time
and focus is better directed to actual claim construction rather than petty gamesmanship wherein
a party seeks to gain an advantage over another by seeking to strike a brief due to a technicality.
The Plaintiff does believe, however, that the parties behind the current motion are not operating
with clean hands when it comes to strict compliance, and that the Court should consider this
factor in evaluating the merits of the Motion. The fact that some of the Defendants feel the need

3

NAES also argues that a second claim term should be interpreted as a “means plus” term, although the Plaintiffs
believe it should not be, as further discussed in the Briefs.

14

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145 Filed 10/08/10 Page 15 of 18 PageID #:
1074

to seek to change the briefing structure after the fact or seek advantage of a de minimus late filing
due to technical difficulties speaks volumes to the lack of confidence the parties have in the
strength of their Markman arguments.
The current motion should be summarily denied as it is inappropriate to seek to create
after-the-fact new pre-requisites for a Response Brief, particularly for the benefit of parties who
themselves have not fully complied with the Markman Briefing requirements or the new rules
they would like to impose.

CONCLUSION
For all of the reasons set forth above, the Plaintiff asks that the Motion to Strike be
denied.

Respectfully submitted,
s/ Robert R. Waters/

Robert R. Waters, Esq.
rrwaters@waterslawoffice.com
Jason A. Poling, Esq.
japoling@waterslawoffice.com
WATERS LAW GROUP, PLLC
633 Seventh Street
Huntington, West Virginia 25701
Telephone: (304) 522-6658
Facsimile: (304) 522-7722
Counsel for Plaintiff Walhonde Tools, Inc.

15

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145 Filed 10/08/10 Page 16 of 18 PageID #:
1075

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA
AT CLARKSBURG

WALHONDE TOOLS, INC.,
Plaintiff,
v.

CIVIL ACTION NO. 1:09-CV-00048

WILSON WORKS, INC.,
a West Virginia Corporation; and
NORTHCO CORP.,
a West Virginia Corporation; and
NAES POWER CONTRACTORS, INC.,
successor by merger to American Boiler & Chimney
Company, a Washington Corporation; and
MINNOTTE CONTRACTING CORPORATION,
a Pennsylvania Corporation; and
FOSTER WHEELER ZACK, INC.,
a Delaware Corporation; and
DAY & ZIMMERMANN NPS, INC.,
a Delaware Corporation,
Defendants.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I hereby certify that on this the __8th____ day of October, 2010, I served the foregoing
PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF’S
MARKMAN RESPONSE BRIEFS by filing the same using the Court’s CM/ECF document
filing system.

SERVICE LIST
James A. Walls
Richard W. James
Ryan Debski
SPILMAN THOMAS & BATTLE, PLLC
48 Donley Street, Suite 800
16

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145 Filed 10/08/10 Page 17 of 18 PageID #:
1076

Morgantown, West Virginia 26501
jwalls@spilmanlaw.com
rdebski@spilmanlaw.com
rjames@spilmanlaw.com
Counsel for Wilson Works, Inc.
Christopher S. Morris
BAILEY & GLASSER, LLP
209 Capitol Street
Charleston, West Virginia 25301
cmorris@baileyglasser.com
Counsel for NAES Power Contractors, Inc.
Jack A. Wheat
Christina I. Ryan
STITES & HARBISON, PLLC
400 West Market Street
Suite 1800
Louisville, Kentucky 40202-3352
jwheat@stites.com
cryan@stites.com
Counsel for NAES Power Contractors, Inc.
Robert J. D’Anniballe, Jr.
PIETRAGALLO GORDON ALFANO BOSIK & RASPANI , LLP
3183 Main Street,
Weirton, West Virginia 26062
rjd@Pietragallo.com
Counsel for Minnotte Contracting Corporation
Carl L. Fletcher, Jr.
BOWLES RICE MCDAVID GRAFF & LOVE, LLP

600 Quarrier St.
P.O. Box 1386
Charleston, West Virginia 25325
Counsel for Foster Wheeler Zack, Inc.
Henry J. Renk
FITZPATRICK, CELLA, HARPER & SCINTO
30 Rockefeller Plaza
New York, New York 10112
Hrenk@fchs.com
Counsel for Foster Wheeler Zack, Inc.
John C. Palmer, IV
ROBINSON & MCE LWEE, PLLC – CHARLESTON
17

Case 1:09-cv-00048-IMK-JSK Document 145 Filed 10/08/10 Page 18 of 18 PageID #:
1077

P.O. Box 1891
Charleston, West Virginia 25326
jcp@ramlaw.com
Counsel for Day & Zimmermann NPS, Inc.
Eric S. Marzluf
James J. Kozuch
1635 Market Street, 11th Floor
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103-2212
esmarzluf@crbcp.com
jjkozuch@crbcp.com
Counsel for Day & Zimmermann NPS, Inc.
Northco Corp.
P.O. Box 2100
Morgantown, West Virginia 26502

s/ Robert R. Waters /
________________________
Robert R. Waters, Esq.

18

