Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 1 of 19

James E. Magleby (7247)
magleby@mcgiplaw.com
Christine T. Greenwood (8187)
greenwood@mcgiplaw.com
Adam Alba (13128)
alba@mcgiplaw.com
MAGLEBY CATAXINOS & GREENWOOD
170 South Main Street, Suite 1100
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101-3605
Telephone: 801.359.9000
Facsimile: 801.359.9011
Attorneys for Purple Innovations, LLC
IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF UTAH, CENTRAL DIVISION

PURPLE INNOVATIONS, LLC, A
Delaware limited liability company,
Plaintiff,

SUPPLEMENTAL MEMORANDUM IN
SUPPORT OF MOTION FOR ORDER
TO SHOW CAUSE WHY DEFENDANTS
SHOULD NOT BE HELD IN CONTEMPT

v.
HONEST REVIEWS, LLC, a Florida
Corporation, RYAN MONAHAN, an
individual, and GHOSTBED, a
Delaware corporation,
Defendants.

Case No.: 2:17-cv-00138-DB
Honorable Dee Benson

Plaintiff Purple Innovations, LLC (“Plaintiff” or “Purple”), by and through its
counsel of record MAGLEBY CATAXINOS & GREENWOOD, respectfully submits this
Supplemental Memorandum in Support of Motion for Order to Show Cause Why
Defendants Should Not Be held in Contempt. [Dkt. No. 17]. This filing is to inform the
Court of what has transpired since March 3, 2017, when Purple filed the Motion for
Order to Show Cause Why Defendants Should Not Be Held in Contempt (the “OSC

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 2 of 19

Motion”), including Defendants’ additional violations of the Temporary Restraining Order
(the “TRO”) entered by the Court on March 2, 2017. [Dkt. No. 16].
INTRODUCTION
Despite the passage of several days since the entry of the TRO, despite having
acknowledged their receipt and knowledge of the entry of the TRO,1 and in clear
violation of the TRO, Defendants Ryan Monahan (“Monahan”), Honest Reviews, LLC
(“HMR”), and (“GhostBed”) (collectively, “Defendants”), have now changed Purple’s
rating on the www.honestmattressreviews.com website (the “Blog”) from “poor,” which
was depicted by a red circle with an X through it, to

, the infamous emoji for

“poop.”2 In addition, Defendants have posted a new “article,” 3 entitled “CENSORED BY
COURT ORDER” (the “CENSORSHIP ‘Article’”).4 The CENSORSHIP “Article” contains
numerous false, misleading, and derogatory statements, all of which are unmistakably

1

That Defendants had notice of the TRO is demonstrated by the new postings
discussed herein, which unambiguously and intentionally reference the TRO.
2

This is one of two four-letter words commonly associated with this emoji and, as
discussed herein, it is likely that Defendants intended to bring the other word to mind.
3

It should be noted that certain materials have been removed from the Blog since the
entry of the TRO, in an effort to make it appear as if Defendants are complying with the
TRO. In particular, the four “articles” and the “PSA” described in the Complaint [Dkt.
No. 2] and the Motion for Temporary Restraining Order (the “TRO Motion”) [Dkt. No. 10]
no longer appear on the Blog, and the “Massive Lawsuit ‘Article’” that was posted after
delivery of the Complaint has also been taken down. As noted, however, Defendants
have simply replaced the old “articles” with new posts that both continue the attack on
Purple and are clearly in violation of a court order.
4

See http://www.honestmattressreviews.com/purple-mattress-review/; see also 3-5-17
capture of “Purple Mattress Review” page, attached as Exhibit “1.”

2

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 3 of 19

aimed at using this lawsuit and the TRO to further malign Purple and proclaim that
Monahan and HMR are being unfairly “censored.” For example, the CENSORSHIP
“Article,” inter alia, accuses Purple’s counsel of lying, calls Purple’s counsel “a pretty
slimy piece of crap,” and labels Purple as “SLAPP SUIT FILING SCUMBUCKETS.” 5
See id., Ex. 1. The “article” further declares that “[I]f you buy a mattress from [Purple],

you’re

on the First Amendment.” See id. (emphasis in original), Ex. 1.6 The

Article goes on to suggest that Court was tricked by Purple and issued an order that is
“unconstitutional:”

Defendants’ new posts and the CENSORSHIP “Article,” which were added to
the Blog after Purple submitted the OSC Motion [Dkt. No. 17], and which acknowledge
receipt of the TRO, are in clear violation of at least two provisions of the TRO. First,
Defendants’ actions are clearly designed to circumvent the purposes of the TRO, which
include stopping irreparable harm to Purple, as reflected in Paragraph 9(e):

Defendants’ posts strongly indicate that they intend to raise a defense under the Utah
Participation in Government Act (the “Utah Anti-SLAPP Act”), Utah Code Ann. §§ 78B6-1401 through 78B-6-1405, or to argue that their “speech” is protected by the First
Amendment. However, neither the Utah Anti-SLAPP Act nor the First Amendment has
any application in this case, and neither protects against the false and misleading
statements made in commerce by Defendants here.
5

6

Notably, none of the new materials posted by Defendants address the affiliation
between HMR, Monahan, GhostBed.

3

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 4 of 19

(e)
Defendants shall not attempt to circumvent the intent of this Order by
make new statements about Purple or its products which are false and
misleading and convey the same substantive message as in the statements
referenced in preceding sub-paragraphs (a)-(c), including through the
“clever use of innuendo, indirect intimations, and ambiguous suggestions.”
Cotrell, Ltd. v. Biotrol Int’l, Inc., 191 F.3d 1248, 1252 (10th Cir. 1999)
(citations omitted).
TRO ¶ 9(g) (emphasis added). [Dkt. No. 16]. Second, Defendants’ actions violate
Paragraph 9(g), which unequivocally prohibits Defendants from:
making false, misleading, or confusing posts or discussions on social media
or otherwise about the existence of this lawsuit, the Court’s temporary
restraining order or other any other orders that may be issued by the Court,
or about Purple’s efforts in this lawsuit to restrain Defendants from
continuing to engage in the conduct at issue, in an attempt to circumvent
the purpose of the injunctive relief sought by Purple.
TRO ¶ 9(g) (emphasis added). [Dkt. No. 16]. This additional contumacious conduct,
which threatens to cement the irreparable harm already done to Purple and its goodwill,
shows that Defendants are not only in contempt, but Purple’s predictions in the OSC
Motion that Defendants would attempt to circumvent the intent of the Court’s TRO have
proven to be true. This new conduct provides additional support for the swift entry of an
order to show cause, including mandating disclosures by the Defendants about their
relationships to each other, and allowing expedited discovery.
As noted supra in footnote 6, it is telling that Defendants continue to fail to
disclose to consumers or otherwise address the past and present association of
Monahan with Purple’s competitor GhostBed, including Monahan’s current status as an
employee of GhostBed’s marketing department, his office at GhostBed’s headquarters
in Florida, his telephone extension at that office, and the ability to contact Monahan at

4

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 5 of 19

marketing@ghostbed.com. See generally Declaration of Tom E. Zoller in Support of
Motion for Temporary Restraining Order, Dkt. No. 11-1.
Purple believed that when Defendants posted the “Massive Lawsuit” article,
which was also in violation of the TRO, the court would already have been “justified in
saying that enough is enough.” Morton v. Continental Baking Co., 938 P.2d 271 (Utah
1997) (emphasis added). At this point, however, there is even more justification to do
so.
STATEMENT OF ADDITIONAL FACTS
The HMR Blog’s Home Page
The home page of the Blog now includes an image of a man in a black suit
holding up a law enforcement badge, across which appear the words “CENSORED BY
COURT ORDER” in large, red, all-capitals text:

5

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 6 of 19

See www.honestmattressreviews.com ; see also March 5, 2017 capture of home page,
attached as Exhibit “2.” Clicking on the image takes the reader to the CENSORSHIP
“Article.”
Also on the home page is an image that had previously appeared on the Blog in
connection with the “Massive Lawsuit ‘Article’”7 but now has different text surrounding it.
The image is of a man with tape across his mouth that reads “FREEDOM” in large red
letters, which is accompanied by a title declaring that a court order is prohibiting HMR
from reviewing Purple and a link inviting the reader to “click here” to “see why” HMR’s
reviews of Purple are not permitted:

7

See OSC Motion at 3 [Dkt. No. 17]; Ex. 2 to OSC Motion. [Dkt. No. 17-3]. While the
“Massive Lawsuit ‘Article’” appears described in the OSC Motion appears to have been
taken down, the post of that article and the campaign (the “Campaign”) for funding to
defend the lawsuit continue to appear on the GoFundMe website at
https://www.gofundme.com/purplesueshonest. Accordingly, the Court should order
Monahan to remove the Campaign from the GoFundMe site.

6

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 7 of 19

See id. Clicking on this link also leads to the CENSORSHIP Article.
The “Reviews” Page of the HMR Blog
The “Reviews” tab of the HMR Blog now lists Purple at the very top of the lengthy
list of mattress companies that HMR purports to review, except that now in place of the
red circle with an X depicting the “poor” rating it previously gave to Purple, an image of
the poop emoji appears, along with the word “CENSORED” and the phrase “NO
RATING DUE TO COURT ORDER” in red all-capital letters:

See https://www.honestmattressreviews.com/mattress-reviews/; see also 3-5-17 HMR
Reviews Tab Capture, attached as Exhibit “3.” Clicking on the blue “Review” box to the
far right of the line concerning Purple leads to the CENSORSHIP “Article.”
The CENSORSHIP “Article” on the Purple Mattress Review Page
Like the HMR Home Page, the “Purple Mattress Review” Page, which now
prominently features the CENSORSHIP “Article,” begins with the image of the law
enforcement officer holding up a badge, with the “CENSORED BY COURT ORDER”
text appearing over the image:

7

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 8 of 19

See CENSORSHIP “Article,” Ex. 1.
Appearing beneath this image is the text of the CENSORSHIP “Article,” which as
noted is incendiary, provocative, and highly accusatory of both Purple and its counsel.
Among other things, the “article” states that:


the TRO is unconstitutional;



this lawsuit is nothing more than a SLAAP suit;



Purple is trying to “sue the negative reviews out of existence” and Purple and its
counsel are “SLAAP SUIT FILING SCUMBUCKETS;” and



Purple’s counsel is lying and a “pretty slimy piece of crap,” and when the judge
“sees what garbage they stuck under his nose to sign, the judge will bench slap
them like a side of beef.”

Id. The complete text of the CENSORSHIP “Article” appears as follows:

8

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 9 of 19

See id., Ex. 1.

9

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 10 of 19

At the end of the CENSORSHIP “Article” is a blue box surrounding the words

“Read The Order Here:”

. Clicking on the box pulls up an image

of the TRO, further demonstrating Defendants’ awareness of the TRO.
As with the “articles” addressed in the Complaint [Dkt. No. 2] and TRO Motion
[Dkt. No. 10], the CENSHORSHIP “Article” is presented as if it is “news,” further
misleading consumers as to the purported legitimacy of the contents of the “article” and
the Blog as a whole:

See id.
Additional / Continued Violations of the TRO
In addition to the new posts, Purple continues to display on the Blog numerous
false and misleading statements and articles in violation of the TRO, further supporting
the issuance of an order to show cause, including portions of the “articles” that the Court
ordered be taken down from the Blog and other places on the web.
For example, portions of the posts which the Court ordered taken down are
repeated in an “article” entitled “Sleepopolis Sends Us To YouTube’s Copyright School
10

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 11 of 19

Rather Than Focusing On Consumer Safety” (the “Sleepopolis ‘Article’”). This “article”
is accessible from the HMR home page, among other places on the Blog, appears
under the headings “BREAKING NEWS” and “INDUSTRY NEWS,” and represents yet
another clear attempt to circumvent the Court’s TRO:

The article includes much of the same text that previously appeared in the
“articles” that were ordered to be removed in the TRO:

11

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 12 of 19

See www.honestmattressreviews.com/sleepopolis-purple-mattress-review/; see also 36-17 web capture of Sleepololis “Article,” attached as Exhibit “4.”
As another example, as of March 5, 2017, a link to the “Responsibility ‘Article’”
discussed in the Complaint and TRO Motion still appeared on the Blog’s home page:

12

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 13 of 19

The Blog now includes what purports to be a “PSA” about the FDA ban on
powdered gloves, represented as “INDUSTRY NEWS,” which clearly is tied to Purple
and represents yet another attempt by innuendo to suggest that Purple’s products are
not safe:

13

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 14 of 19

See https://www.honestreviewscompany.com/fda-bans-powdered-gloves; see also
capture of PSA attached as Exhibit “5.” If Purple was not a target of Defendants’ smear
campaign, it seems highly unlikely that an article about “powdered” gloves used in
medical settings would appear on a review site for mattresses.
ARGUMENT
Defendants are contempt of the TRO, and they show no signs that they intend to
comply with that order. Rather, Defendants continue to demonstrate the wisdom of the
Lantham Act’s prohibition against conveying false and misleading statements, including
through the “clever use of innuendo, indirect intimations, and ambiguous suggestions.”
Cotrell, Ltd. v. Biotrol Int’l, Inc., 191 F.3d 1248, 1252 (10th Cir. 1999) (citations omitted).
The facts set forth above reveal that, even though Defendants have removed
from the Blog certain offending “articles” and images, they have taken no further steps
to comply with the TRO, instead electing to fan the flames and thereby undermine the
very purpose of the TRO. Indeed, the TRO – a temporary order designed to stop
irreparable harm pending a preliminary injunction hearing – is directly aimed in this case
at preventing the very type of conduct in which Defendants are now engaged.
Defendants’ latest internet postings show that they are attempting to paint Purple as
being afraid of competition and having filed a frivolous lawsuit to stop Defendants’
alleged “free speech,” when in reality Purple is trying to prevent irreparable harm to its
reputation and goodwill caused by false and misleading statements and innuendos that
are not only causing harm to Purple but also to the consumers Defendants claim they
are helping. Consumers are not aided however, when they are intentionally mislead

14

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 15 of 19

and confused, for transparently competitive purposes,8 intentionally confuse and
mislead consumers into thinking they have independently investigated and found
Purple’s products are harmful. These contumacious posts present and a new and dire
threat to Purple and its goodwill.
As set forth in the TRO Motion [Dkt. No. 8] and the Supplemental Memorandum
in Support of Motion for Temporary Restraining Order [Dkt. No. 11], Defendants,
working in concert, first attempted to unfairly compete by falsely and misleadingly
accusing Purple’s products as being dangerous and unsafe, and by misleading and
confusing consumers into believing that their reviews of mattress companies – including
their extremely favorable review of Defendant and Purple competitor GhostBed – are
entirely neutral, independent, and unbiased. Now, having temporarily been restrained
from that misconduct, Defendants are taking a new tack, which is expressly in violation
of the plain language of TRO. In pertinent part, the TRO provides as follows:
Defendants are hereby restrained from making false, misleading, or
confusing posts or discussions on social media or otherwise about the
existence of this lawsuit, the Court’s temporary restraining order or other
any other orders that may be issued by the Court, or about Purple’s efforts
in this lawsuit to restrain Defendants from continuing to engage in the
conduct at issue, in an attempt to circumvent the purpose of the injunctive
relief sought by Purple.
TRO ¶ 9(g) (emphasis added). [Dkt. No. 16].

And Defendants’ actions are all the more misleading, when Defendants continue to
hide the fact that Defendant Monahan actually works in GhostBed’s Marketing
Department.
8

15

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 16 of 19

The conduct described above indisputably falls within and violates the ambit of
this paragraph. Defendants are posting “false, misleading, and confusing” materials on
the internet, and the materials posted by Defendants expressly and unabashedly
reference the “existence of this lawsuit, the Court’s temporary restraining order . . . ,
[and] Purple’s efforts in this lawsuit to restrain Defendants from continuing to engage in
the conduct at issue.” Id. Moreover, all of the new materials posted by Defendants
represent exactly what is prohibited by the TRO, namely, an “attempt to circumvent the
purpose of the injunctive relief sought by Purple.” Id.
Defendants’ most recent actions, which ironically acknowledge the existence of
the TRO, are not only in direct violation of the TRO, but they present a serious
challenge to the Court’s authority. Defendants suggest the Court has acted improperly,
assert that the TRO is “unconstitutional,” and claim that the Court was easily tricked by
the “lies” of Purple’s counsel. However, disagreement with a court order, or even a
legitimate belief that an order is unconstitutional, do not allow a party to ignore or violate
the order. Defendants are now delivering the false message that Purple is intentionally
misleading the Court, trying to hide truth from its customers, and is an enemy of free
speech, all the while fail to acknowledge their own contribution to these circumstances,
including their unmistakable efforts to evade service of process.
Defendants’ recent posts and continued use of portions of the posts expressly
ordered to be taken down by the Court are also clearly in violation of Paragraph 9(e),
because they represent new false and misleading statements designed to circumvent
the purpose of the TRO and cause additional harm to Purple:

16

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 17 of 19

(e)
Defendants shall not attempt to circumvent the intent of this Order by
make new statements about Purple or its products which are false and
misleading and convey the same substantive message as in the statements
referenced in preceding sub-paragraphs (a)-(c), including through the
“clever use of innuendo, indirect intimations, and ambiguous suggestions.”
Cotrell, Ltd. v. Biotrol Int’l, Inc., 191 F.3d 1248, 1252 (10th Cir. 1999)
(citations omitted).
TRO ¶ 9(g) (emphasis added). [Dkt. No. 16].
Again, as set forth in the OSC Motion and for the additional reasons addressed
herein, each of the elements for civil contempt is met. A valid order exists, Defendants
had knowledge of it, and yet they have disobeyed it. See Bad Ass Coffee Company of
Haw., Inc. v. Bad Ass Coffee Ltd. P’ship, 95 F. Supp. 2d 1252, 1255 (10th Cir. 2000)
(listing the three elements of civil contempt). Therefore, due to the additional
contumacious conduct addressed herein, an order to show cause is warranted,
Defendants are in contempt, and Purple is entitled to the relief set forth in the OSC
Motion and the Proposed Order to Show Cause [Dkt. No. 17-1] filed on March 3, 2017.
CONCLUSION
For all of the foregoing reasons and for those set forth in the OSC Motion, Purple
respectfully asks the Court to grant the OSC Motion and issue the relief requested
therein, as well as fashion any additional relief which the Court deems appropriate to
protect the Court’s authority, in the face of Defendants contumacious – indeed
disrespectful – conduct.

17

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 18 of 19

DATED this 6th day of March, 2017.
MAGLEBY CATAXINOS & GREENWOOD

/s/ James E. Magleby
James E. Magleby
Christine T. Greenwood
Adam Alba
Attorneys for Plaintiff Purple Innovations, LLC

18

Case 2:17-cv-00138-DB Document 20 Filed 03/06/17 Page 19 of 19

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I am employed by the law firm of MAGLEBY CATAXINOS &
GREENWOOD, 170 South Main Street, Suite 1100, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, and that
pursuant to Rule 5 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, I served copy of the
foregoing SUPPLEMENTAL MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT MOTION FOR ORDER
TO SHOW CAUSE WHY DEFENDANTS SHOULD NOT BE HELD IN CONTEMPT
upon the following by ECF and/or electronic mail on this 6th day of March, 2017:
W. Andrew McCullough
wandrew48@ymail.com
W. Andrew McCullough, LLC
6885 South State Street, Suite 200
Midvale, Utah 84047
Mark J. Randazza
mjr@randazza.com
RANDAZZA LEGAL GROUP
4035 South El Capitan Way
Las Vegas, Nevada 89147

Ethan Horwitz
ehorwitz@carltonfields.com
Carlton Fields
The Chrysler Building
405 Lexington Ave
New York, NY 10174-0002
Attorneys for GhostBed, Inc.

Attorneys for Defendants Honest
Reviews, LLC and Ryan Monahan

/s/ Janae Kidd________________________

1

