 

Case HO7-ev-01625-RBW Document 5 Filed 12/)Qj2007 = Page 1 of 20

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

SAMUEL K. JACOBS, et al, CASE NO.: 1:07euroV01625
PLAINTIFFS, HONORABLE JUDGE:
v. REGGIE B. WALTON
PLAINTIFFS' REPSONSE TO
SIDNEY S. FRIEDMAN, et al, MOTION FOR MORE DEFINITE
STATEMENT
DEFENDANTS.

 

 

 

PLAINTIFFS' RESPONSE TO MOTION FOR MORE DEFINITE STATEMENT

COMES NOW the Plaintiffs who hereby state that it has become almost obligatory that the
defendants in any case, especially a RICO case, file a motion for a definite statement regardless of
how well defined the Complaint may be in detail of law and actualities of veracity. The Defendants
are merely exercising a waste of the Court's time in order to avoid filing an answer to the complaint
by the time ascribed as they have done in the past. The Plaintiffs therefore respond to the
Defendants' motion, by the following, to-wit:

1. That Plaintiffs concur with the Defendants that a RICO Complaint was filed by Plaintiffs.

9. That the Defendants have a habit of openly denying the federal laws, the Supreme Court
of the United States, and the Constitution of the United States through filings in United States
District Courts. The Defendants fail to recognize that this is not the Maryland State court.. The
Defendants were allowed, and were never reprimanded, to defile the Constitution of the United
States in another U.S. District Court, and this writing displays the confidence that they can defy

the United States Code, the decisions of other Federal Courts, the Supreme Court of the United

R E C E Mey court also.

DEC Tg

R WH
Us, Oisrmgy NS

2007 PLAINTIFFS' RESPONSE TO MOTION FOR MORE DEFINITE STATEMENT-Page 1 of 4

70
Quen" CLERK
Case 1:07-cv- -
e 1:07-cv o1ee> RBW Document 5 Filed 12/1Qj2007 Page 2 of 20

3. That Plaintiffs filed in this Honorable Court because this court has exclusive and
additional authorities and prerogatives beyond the other District Courts because of its history which
began with the Organic Act of 1801 and which it still maintains.

4, That Plaintiffs clearly defined the crimes. Plaintiffs used citations to emphasize the extent
of the crime, and Plaintiffs state that the Defendants should not accuse the Court of not being able
to read when it is the Defendants who are sidestepping the facts of the case with smoke and
mirrors by failing to recognize or admit:

a. That the civil RICO statutes enacted in 1970 were based upon the Sherman-Clayton Anti

Trust Act including being able to "recover threefold the damages" sustained and the cost of

the suit;

b. That the Defendants violated the laws of the United States by conspiring with a known

enemy of the United States who has threatened to bomb a major American city and has

threatened to kill the Plaintiffs; and,

c. That Defendants openly threatened though violence to steal the Plaintiffs' office

equipment through theft by conversion and in the process TERRIFIED the office staff.

5. That the Plaintiffs would request that the Defendants READ the facts of the complaint
and the laws which are associated with the incident which is defined. Every law which has been
quoted has been referred to in the body of the complaint unless the law is complete with a single
reference. RICO requires at least two incidences within a period of ten years to prove the "pattern of
racketeering activity."

6. That the Defendants fail to defend their accusation with any substance that the Plaintiffs
have no private cause of action when Title 18 U.S.C.A. 0x00A7 1964 (c)(Civil remedies) grants the

Plaintiffs not only the right to file as private parties, but as "private attorney generals." Once

PLAINTIFFS' RESPONSE TO MOTION FOR MORE DEFINITE STATEMENT-Page 2 of 4
Case H07-ev-01825-RBW Document5 ~~ Filed 12/10/2007 Page 3 of 20

again, the Defendants have proved that they have no knowledge about the basic structure and
background of the RICO statutes.

7. That this is a RICO complaint, not a State action where little or no expertise is required to
fill out a form. Where required, the Plaintiffs met Rule 8 (General Rules of Pleading) guidelines, but
Rule 8 is not typical for any RICO complaint or answer. Where is the Defendants' more definite
statement in their motion? Defendants statements do not comply to the Rule 12(b) demand under
which they are filing for a more definite answer when they simply opened a Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure and began copying the most obvious and rote statements for each Rule.

8. That simple one line pleadings do not meet the Rule 9(b) (Pleading Special Matters)
requirements for fraud and RICO pleadings, and the Plaintiffs have met that requirement in this
Complaint. But if the Defendants actually understood the RICO statutes and provided a proper
defense accordingly then this would not have to be explained.

9. That Plaintiffs state that when the Defendant cannot substantiate any claim with concrete
reliance on the law, and support of that reliance with citations of prominent RICO cases, they
cannot claim that the Plaintiffs' complaint lacks meaningful content. The Defendants are trying to
wing it on rote material not relevant to the subject at hand, and they look foolish with these
statements.

10. That the Defendants cannot give an answer when they do not know the subject that is
before the Court and criticizing the Plaintiffs' well constructed pleading with nonsense claims
should not excuse them from answering the complaint as required by law. The Defendants' motion
is nothing more than an evasive technique to avoid answering a well documented complaint. Every

criticism has already been addressed in the complaint.

PLAINTIFFS' RESPONSE TO MOTION FOR MORE DEFINITE STATEMENT-Page 3 of 4
Case HO7-ev-01625-RBW Document 5 Filed 12/1 Qr007 Page 4 of 20

11. That Plaintiffs assert that some of the Defendants' statements are just plain ludicrous,
and their filing was submitted to stall for time and have the Plaintiffs supply them with the
resources, points and authorities to enable them to basically write their Answer.

THEREFORE, the Plaintiffs pray that the Honorable Court rule that the Defendants answer
the Complaint as written and that the attached memorandum of points and authorities supplies all
documentation that may explain and assist the Defendants in this obligation.

Dated this 10" day of December, 2007.

Respectfully submitted,

Set t Hgete

Samuel K. Jaco

Fen Lhe -

Nandy M. Lhe

OFFICES OF SAMUEL K. JACOBS
2300 M Street NW, Suite 838
Washington, D.C. 20037

Telephone: 202-416-1753

E-mail: sjnhjacobs@msn.com

PLAINTIFFS' RESPONSE TO MOTION FOR MORE DEFINITE STATEMENT-Page 4 of 4
Case 1-07-cv-01825-RBW Document5 ~~ Filed 12/10/2007 Page 5of 20

wiht UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

SAMUEL K. JACOBS, et al, CASE NO.: 1:07CV01625

HONORABLE JUDGE:

LAINT '
P IFFS REGGIE B. WALTON

Vv.

MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND

AUTHORITITES IN SUPPORT OF
PLAINTIFFS' REPSONSE TO
DEFENDANTS. MOTION FOR MORE DEFINITE

STATEMENT

SIDNEY S. FRIEDMAN, et al,

 

 

 

MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT OF
PLAINTIFFS' RESPONSE TO MOTION FOR MORE DEFINITE STATEMENT

COMES NOW the Plaintiffs who support their PLAINTIFFS' REPSONSE TO MOTION FOR
MORE DEFINITE STATEMENT with points and authorities. The Plaintiffs state that they are neither
teachers nor are they baby sitters to sit and explain all parts of a RICO complaint to the Defendants.
Plaintiffs state the following, to-wit:

1. That at first the Plaintiffs started to oblige the Defendants with the location and explanation
of each law which they so sloppily listed on pages 8 and 9. And, if the Court requires further elucidation
of the subject, then the Plaintiffs will gladly submit any documents which the Court might require. But,
after the Plaintiffs reviewed the Defendants' motion and their own "AMENDED COMPLAINT FOR
CONSPIRACY UNDER RACKETEERING INFLUENCED ACT AND CORRUPT
ORGANIZATIONS ACT (RICO)," the Plaintiffs realized that they had submitted a complaint which

met the criteria for a proper RICO pleading.

MEM. OF PTS. & AUTH. IN SUP. OF RESPONSE TO MOT. FOR MORE DEF. STATEMENT-Page 1 of 16
Case VO7-cv-01825-RBW Document5 Filed 12/10/2007 Page 6 of 20

2. That, however, Plaintiffs assert that if the Defendants want the Plaintiffs to do the research
for the laws referred to in the Complaint which were already cited and exemplified, then the Plaintiffs
will submit that research to them for $500 per page. Plaintiffs state the following, to-wit:

3. Plaintiffs have met all of the Checklist requirements for a RICO complaint:

a. The Plaintiffs have alleged each prohibited and unlawful conduct which is a violation

under Title 18 U.S.C.A. 0x00A7 1962 (a),(b), (c), and (d) (Prohibited activities);

b. The liability and misconduct basis of liability of each defendant has been alleged;

c. The Plaintiffs have listed the wrongdoers, known at this time, and have listed the acts

committed by the wrongdoers. Plaintiffs have even filed separate actions against some of the

known wrongdoers, and other actions are being prepared against others as they are revealed;

d. The Plaintiffs have stated how they, and their business associates and office staff, have

been victimized by these Defendants and their coconspirators;

e. The Plaintiffs have described in detail the pattern of racketeering activities or collection

of unlawful debts alleged for each RICO claim by:

(1) Listing the alleged predicate acts and the specific statutes which were allegedly
violated;

(2) Providing dates of the predicate acts, the participants in the predicate acts, and a
description of the facts surrounding the predicate acts;

(3) Stating that the RICO claim is based on the predicate offenses of wire fraud, mail
fraud, and other frauds by identifying the time, place and contents of the alleged
misrepresentation and identity of persons to whom and by whom the alleged
misrepresentation was made;

(4) Stating how the predicate acts formed a "pattern of racketeering activities";

MEM. OF PTS. & AUTH. IN SUP. OF RESPONSE TO MOT. FOR MORE DEF. STATEMENT-Page 2 of 16
Case HO7-ev-0125-RBW Document5 Filed 12/10/2007 Page 7 of 20

(5) Stating whether the alleged predicate acts were part of a "common plan"; and,
(6) Stating in the "COUNTS?" the criminal actions demanded for each offense.
L_INTRODUCTION

4. That Plaintiffs aver that very few of the Defendants' statements in the Introductory
paragraphs are entirely correct. First of all, the Plaintiffs have supplied copies of their complaints to
the Attorney General of the United States for a full investigation of all of these Defendants.
Plaintiffs will ask that Subpoenas be issued in order to achieve a full discovery, and yes, this has
taken years to almost complete the discovery process. Plaintiffs have requested the cooperation of
the Department of Justice, and have mailed or delivered copies of their filings to the Department of
Justice regularly since April 4, 2004.

5. That Plaintiffs state that foremost in their objections to the Defendants' vacuous filing is
the reference to DEFENDANTS Yelin Shi and Yu Fan as MR. Shi and MS. Fan. They are
DEFENDANTS Yelin Shi and Yu Fan who are accused of violating the laws of the United States
for which the Plaintiffs have proof-they are not extraneous entities who are average law abiding
Citizens who have been victimized by the Plaintiffs; Plaintiffs assert that it is they who have been
victimized, otherwise, they would not have filed this Complaint in this court.

6. That, now, as to the Defendants' comments in their memorandum, to-wit:

a. That in Case Number: 1:04cv1379, filed in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia, the Defendants denied the Constitution of the United States, the laws
enacted pursuant thereof, the decisions of the U.S. District Court AND the Supreme Court of the
United States, and, also, denied the jurisdiction and venue of that court in their Answer to that case.
Then, in the same pleading, they filed a Counterclaim citing that same jurisdiction and venue they

had just denied.
MEM. OF PTS. & AUTH. IN SUP. OF RESPONSE TO MOT. FOR MORE DEF. STATEMENT-Page 3 of 16
Case HO7-ev-01825-RBW Document5 ~~ Filed 12/10/2007 Page 8 of 20

b. That on the face of the record, primarily in the Docket Sheets, other judges and attorneys
who have reviewed the exhibits agree that the Docket Sheets were so convoluted and confusing
that there was no way to determine when, if, who, or what hearing was going to be held at any time
in that case. There were violations of at least seven rules or laws, and there were violations of
constitutional rights under Amendments IV, V, IX, VII, and XIV when State laws are applied to
Federal Court proceedings.

c. That the Plaintiffs aver that the Defendants were improperly awarded a judgment for a
parol agreement, of sorts, when the most that should have been awarded to the Defendants was a
dismissal with no award to the Defendants.' Plaintiffs state that this was an error on the part of the
court to award a judgment for a parol agreement in the face of two written contracts and they
appealed the decision. It was denied, and Plaintiffs believe that the Court of Appeal for the Fourth
Circuit did not receive the correct information about this case in time to really review the lower
court's opinion.

7. That the Plaintiffs filed a complaint for a second case in the same Virginia U. S. District
Court which is Case Number: 1:07cv395, and as of this writing, it is also Case Number: 07-1942
before the Court of Appeal for the Fourth Circuit in Richmond. Case Number: 1:07cv395 was not
filed on the same issues as Case Number: 1:04cv1379 since the Plaintiffs presented two different
written contracts made with major suppliers for which the Defendants breached the contracts and
caused the inducement of breach of contracts with third party beneficiaries and these issues are still
outstanding.

8. That Defendants breached these two contracts with damages of at least $5,790,000.00

and are a set off counterclaim to the Defendants' claim for a parol agreement of $140,000.00 In a

 

MEM. OF PTS. & AUTH. IN SUP. OF RESPONSE TO MOT. FOR MORE DEF. STATEMENT--Page 4 of 16
Case 107 ev-01825-RBW Document 5 Filed 12/10/2007 Page 9 of 20

few months the reason why these two cases were never resolved correctly will surface. Plaintiffs
aver that the forthcoming issues will greatly influence this case and will become part of this cause
of action.

9. That the Defendants brought their judgment to Maryland, misfiled it as a Foreign
Judgment without following the laws of the State," failed to file a bond with the Court for their
Writs of Attachment pursuant to Maryland Rule 2-115(c), (Attachment before Judgment), and,
Defendants were not entitled to attachment before judgment pursuant to Maryland Rule 2-115 (g).

10. That at a motions hearing in the Maryland State court, the judge told the Plaintiffs that
they could not submit any documents or evidence to support their own motions, when they asked if
they could present the two written contracts which the Defendants breached and which had already
been included in the filings. Only the Defendants' attorney was allowed to speak uninterruptedly
and state his position. The case is continuing in the Circuit Court for Montgomery County,
Maryland, and also in the Special Court of Appeals for the denial of constitutional rights under of
Amendments IV and XIV and violation of Title 42 U.S.C.A. 0x00A7 1983 (Civil action for deprivation of
rights).

11. That Plaintiffs have suffered with bills for over $5,790,000.00 in damages due to these
Defendants' fraudulent actions for breach of contract and inducement of breach of contract. The
large agri-conglomerate Continental Grain now part of Cargill has notified the Plaintiffs that they

will be suing the Defendants in this case since they are part of the third party beneficiaries who

 

2

3 It has been stated, however, that the mode of procedure, after jurisdiction of the person is obtained,
must be in accordance with law, and a clear violation thereof, if fundamental, vitiates the judgment,
and subjects it to collateral attack, where the violation is apparent on the face of the record proper.

State v. District Court of Eighth Judicial Dist. in and for Natrona County, 238 P. 545, 33 Wyo. 281.

MEM. OF PTS. & AUTH. IN SUP. OF RESPONSE TO MOT. FOR MORE DEF. STATEMENT-Page 5 of 16
Case 1:07-cv-01625-RBW Document 5 Filed 12/10/3007 Page 10 of 20

suffered damages due to breach of contract and inducement for breach of contract for failure to
perform on the soy bean contract pursuant to the following as the basis:

While a bill of lading in so far as it is a contract, cannot be explained by parol, yet being a
receipt as well as a contract, it may in that regard be so explained, especially when used as
the foundation of a suit between the original parties to it.

Mr. Robert Rae, for the appellants:

1. The signing of the bills of lading by the authorized agent of the vessel, after delivery of
the property into his possession and control, binds the vessel, and has the same force and
effect as if signed by the master.'

2. The owner of the vessel is estopped as against a consignee of the bill of lading, when
either has taken it for a valuable consideration upon the faith of the acknowledgments which
it contains, to which he has given credit, by the signature of his agent, so far as these
statements relate to matters which are, or ought to be, within his knowledge."

In this case, the consignee advanced on the faith of the bill of lading.

3. Parol testimony cannot be received in courts of admiralty, any more than in courts of
law, to contradict the terms of a bill of lading. Nor can courts of admiralty exercise
chancery powers to reform maritime contracts.'

4. When a written contract is attacked on the grounds of containing some material
mistake, the evidence of mistake must be very strong. Lord Hardwicke says,(R) that in such a
case, he would require "the strongest proof possible," which words Lord Eldon observes,
"leave a weighty caution to future judges." 9

12. That the Plaintiffs state that they are loyal American Citizens who have been defrauded
by Defendants Yelin Shi and Yu Fan, and Defendants Sidney S. Friedman, Greg I. Rose, and
Weinstock, Friedman & Friedman, P.A. have aided and abetted them through the commission of
more predicate acts.

a. First of all, after living here for approximately fifteen years, Defendant Yelin Shi is not a

Citizen because he is not loyal to the United States. He is an agent of The Peoples Republic of

 

4 Rawls et al v. Deshler, 3 Keys, 577; Dows v. Greene, 24 New York, 638; Coosa River Steamboat
Company v, Barclay, 30 Alabama, 120; Putnam v. Tillotson, 13 Metcalf, 517.
> Sears v. Wingate, 3 Allen, 103; Ward y. Whitney, 3 Sanford, 399; Sutton v. Kettel, 1 Sprague, 309.
0x00B0 Greenleaf on Evidence, 0x00A7 402.
7 Andrews v. Essex Insurance Company, 3 Mason, 7; The Ives, Newbury, 205.
8 Langley v. Brown, 2 Atkyn, 203. And in Shelburne v. Inchiquin, Lord Thurlow demanded "strong
irrefragable evidence."
" The Lady Franklin, 75 U.S. 325; 19 L.Ed. 455 (1868) 8 Wall. 325.

MEM. OF PTS. & AUTH. IN SUP. OF RESPONSE TO MOT. FOR MORE DEF. STATEMENT-Page 6 of 16
