Case 1:13-cv-02433-RDB Document9 Filed 02/28/14 Page 1 of9

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND

Northern Division
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, *
Plaintiff 8
v. * CIVIL NO, RDB-13-2433
$106,647.00 U.S. CURRENCY, *
Defendant *

MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT ON THE ISSUE OF THE LEGALITY OF
THE SEIZURE OF THE NARCOTICS, NARCOTICS PARAPHERNALIA,
HANDGUN, AND THE $106, 647.00 US. CURRENCY

Now come Adolfo-Gitchenos Aduso Lucas, Claimant, and $106,647.00 U.S.
Currency, Defendant, by and through their attorney, Brian J. Murphy, and pursuant to
Rule 56 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and Rule G of the Supplemental Rules
for Admiralty or Maritime Claims and Asset Forfeiture Actions, file this Motion for
Summary Judgment. As reasons therefor, the Claimant and the Defendant assert:

1, The $106,647.00 U.S. Currency in this case was seized from Claimant
Adolfo-Gitchenos Aduso Lucas by officers of the Baltimore City Police Department and
the Maryland State Police on February 1, 2013. In connection with that seizure, the
police officers also seized narcotics, narcotics paraphernalia, and a handgun. As a result

of those seizures, Claimant Lucas was charged by the police with various narcotics and

 
Case 1:13-cv-02433-RDB Document9 Filed 02/28/14 Page 2 of 9

handgun offenses. The Grand Jury for Baltimore City subsequently indicted Claimant on
those charges and the case was set for trial in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City.

2. Claimant's attorney in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Lawrence
Rosenberg, filed a motion to suppress the narcotics, the narcotics paraphernalia, the
handgun, and the U.S. currency. A hearing was held on that motion on July 16, 2013
before the Honorable Barry Williams. At that hearing, Assistant State's Attorney
Jennifer Brady called as a witness Baltimore City Police Officer Taras Hnatyshyn, the
primary investigating and seizing officer. During the hearing, Brady fully examined
Officer Hnatyshyn and vociferously argued the facts and the constitutional law regarding
the legality of the search and seizure. At the close of that hearing, Judge Williams
entered an order suppressing all of the seized items, ruling that all of the items were
seized in violation of the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution. This
suppression order caused the State to lack sufficient admissible evidence upon which to
proceed to trial on these criminal charges; as a result, the State entered a nolle prosqui
pursuant to Maryland Rule 4-247. See attached Affidavit of Lawrence Rosenberg.

3. Because the seizure of the narcotics, narcotics paraphernalia, handgun, and
U.S. Currency had been ruled illegal due to violations of the Fourth Amendment, the
State of Maryland took no steps to forfeit the U.S. currency at issue in this case. Instead,
the Baltimore City Police Department forwarded the U.S. Currency to the federal Drug
Enforcement Administration for the commencement of the instant federal forfeiture
proceedings. The United States subsequently filed a Verified Complaint for Forfeiture;

that Complaint concerns the exact same seizure of narcotics, narcotics paraphernalia, a

2

 
Case 1:13-cv-02433-RDB Document9 Filed 02/28/14 Page 3 of 9

handgun and $106,647.00 in U.S. Currency that had been ruled illegal by the Honorable
Barry Williams in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City.

4. In regard to federal forfeiture proceedings, "[t]he Supreme Court has held
that an object illegally seized cannot in any way be used either as evidence or as a basis
for jurisdiction and, accordingly, evidence derived because of a violation of the Fourth
Amendment cannot be used in a forfeiture proceeding." (citations omitted). United
States v. $80,080.00 in United States Currency, 779 F.Supp. 169, 173 (N.D. Ga. 1991).
This doctrine has been incorporated into the rules governing federal forfeitures. See Rule
G(8)(a) of the Supplemental Rules for Admiralty or Maritime Claims and Asset
Forfeiture Actions.

5. A forfeiture case, of course, is a civil case. In civil cases, "[t]he federal
courts have traditionally adhered to the related doctrines of res judicata and collateral
estoppel." Allen v. McCurry, 449 U.S. 90, 94 (1980). "Under collateral estoppel, once a
court has decided an issue of fact or law necessary to its judgment, that decision may
preclude relitigation of the issue in a suit on a different cause of action involving a party
to the first case." Jd The reason for this doctrine is to "relieve parties of the cost and
vexation of multiple lawsuits, conserve judicial resources, and, by preventing inconsistent
decisions, encourage reliance on adjudication." Jd.

6, The Supreme Court has stated that "[t]he federal courts generally have also
consistently accorded preclusive effect to issues decided by state courts." (citation
omitted). Allen v. McCurry, supra at 95, "Thus, res judicata and collateral estoppel not

only reduce unnecessary litigation and foster reliance on adjudication but also promote

3

 
Case 1:13-cv-02433-RDB Document9 Filed 02/28/14 Page 4 of 9

the comity between state and federal courts that has been recognized as a bulwark of the
federal system." /d. at 95-96, In regard to the resolution of federal constitutional issues
by state courts, the Supreme Court has espoused an "emphatic reaffirmation...of the
constitutional obligation of the state courts to uphold federal law" and has evinced an
"expression of confidence in their ability to do so." Jd. at 10S.

7. In addition, "in recent years, [the Supreme Court] has reaffirmed the
benefits of collateral estoppel in particular, finding the policies underlying it to apply in
contexts not formerly recognized at common law." Allen vy. McCurry, supra at 94. For
example, the requirement of "mutuality"-a requirement that the parties in both actions
be the same-has been eliminated. /d. at 94-95, Pursuant to this doctrinal liberalization,
collateral estoppel has been heid to bind a party in a federal action who was not a party in
a state action involving similar issues as long as the party against whom the estoppel was
asserted was "in privity" with a party in the state action. Nash County Board of
Education v. Biltmore Company, 640 F.2d 484, 493 (4"" Cir. 1981). As for the definition
of privity, the Fourth Circuit has said:

"Privity is a term without any `generally prevailing definition...which can

be automatically applied to all cases involving the doctrine of res

judicata.'" (citation omitted). It has been appropriately described as `an

elusive concept without any precise definition of general

applicability...(which in essence) designates (for res judicata purposes) a

person so identified in interest with a party to former litigation that he

represents precisely the same legal right in respect to the subject matter

involved." (citations omitted). Jd. at 493.

8. Claimant asserts that the doctrine of collateral estoppel should be applied in

the instant case to preclude the use, in this forfeiture action, of the evidence seized by the

4

 
Case 1:13-cv-02433-RDB Document9 Filed 02/28/14 Page 5of9

Baltimore City and Maryland State police. The seizure of that evidence was declared
illegal under federal constitutional principles after the State of Maryland, through
Assistant State's Attorney Jennifer Brady, was given a "`full and fair opportunity' to
litigate (its) search and seizure claim." See Allen v. McCurry, supra at 91. In this federal
forfeiture action the United States, through Assistant United States Attorney Stefan
Cassella, stands in privity with the State of Maryland in regard to the search and seizure
issue because both parties "represent[s] precisely the same legal right in respect to the
subject matter involved." See Nash County Board of Education v. Biltmore Company,
supra at 493. That "legal right," which both of those parties have asserted or are
attempting to assert, is the same in this federal case as it was in the state case, ie., the
right of the government to use the seized evidence against the Claimant in a court
proceeding.

WHEREFORE, for the foregoing reasons, Claimant and Defendant respectfully
request that this Court grant summary judgment as to the legality of the seizure of the
narcotics, narcotics paraphernalia, handgun, and $106,647.00 in U.S. Currency and rule

that this evidence is inadmissible in this forfeiture action.

 
Case 1:13-cv-02433-RDB Document9 Filed 02/28/14 Page 6 of 9

Respectfully submitted,

/s/

 

Brian J. Murphy

1206 St. Paul Street

Baltimore, MD 21202

(410) 347-2030

Counsel for Claimant
Adolfo-Gitchenos Aduso Lucas
lawyermurphy@aol.com

Fax (443) 573-9066

 

REQUEST FOR HEARING

 

Pursuant to Rule 105.6 of the Rules of the United States District Court for the
District of Maryland, Claimant and Defendant respectfully request a hearing on this

motion.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 28" day of February, 2014, a copy of the
foregoing document was served by way of ECF on: Stefan D. Cassella, Esquire, Assistant
United States Attorney, 36 South Charles Street, Fourth Floor, Baltimore, MD 21201.

/s/

 

BRIAN J. MURPHY

 
Case 1:13-cv-02433-RDB Document9 Filed 02/28/14 Page 7 of 9

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND
Northern Division

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, *

Plaintiff *
v. ** CIVIL NO. RDB-13-2433
$106,647.00 U.S. CURRENCY, *

Defendant *

AFFIDAVIT OF LAWRENCE B. ROSENBERG, ESQUIRE

My name is Lawrence B. Rosenberg. My address is 200 East Lexington Street,
Suite 909, Baltimore, Maryland 21202 and my telephone number is (410) 752-1133. I
am an attorney who primarily practices criminal defense in both the state and federal
courts in Maryland. I have been a practicing attorney for 40 years.

I represented Adolfo Lucas, the Claimant in this case, on criminal charges in the
Circuit Court for Baltimore City in case number 113050038-39. Those charges arose out
of the seizure, by Baltimore City Police officers and Maryland State Police officers, of
narcotics, narcotics paraphernalia, a handgun, and $106,647.00 in U.S. Currency on
February 1, 2013 in Baltimore City. I have examined the Verified Complaint for
Forfeiture filed in this case as well as the Declaration attached thereto. The narcotics,
narcotics paraphernalia, handgun, and $106,647.00 in U.S. Currency which are

mentioned in and are the subject of the Verified Complaint for Forfeiture and the attached

1

 
Case 1:13-cv-02433-RDB Document9 Filed 02/28/14 Page 8 of 9

Declaration are the same items that formed the basis of the Claimant's criminal charges
in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City.

I filed a Motion to Suppress in the Claimant's case in the Circuit Court for
Baltimore City. A hearing was held on that motion on July 16, 2013 before the
Honorable Barry Williams. The State of Maryland was represented by Assistant State's
Attorney Jennifer Brady. At that hearing, Ms. Brady called as her witness Baltimore City
Police Officer Taras Hnatyshyn, who was the primary investigating and seizing officer in
the case. Ms. Brady questioned Officer Hnatyshyn thoroughly on direct examination
and, after I cross-examined the officer, thoroughly questioned Officer Hnatyshyn again
on redirect examination. Ms. Brady also submitted several exhibits to the court; these
exhibits were admitted into evidence.

After all the testimony and evidence was presented, both Ms. Brady and I argued
our respective positions to Judge Williams. Ms. Brady argued that the search for and
subsequent seizure of the narcotics, narcotics paraphernalia, handgun, and $106,647.00
in U.S currency comported with the requirements of the Fourth Amendment to the United
States Constitution. I argued that both the search for and subsequent seizure of these
items were undertaken in violation of the Fourth Amendment to the United States
Constitution. After hearing thorough and vociferous argument by both Ms. Brady and
me, Judge Williams ruled that the search and seizure was conducted in violation of the
Fourth Amendment and granted my motion to suppress all of the items seized by the
police. The items that were suppressed were the exact same items that are mentioned in

and are the subject of the Verified Complaint for Forfeiture and attached Declaration

2

 
Case 1:13-cv-02433-RDB Document 9 Filed 02/28/14 Page 9of9

filed in this forfeiture case. Because the State now lacked sufficient admissible evidence
with which to prosecute Claimant, Ms. Brady entered a nolle prosequi in the case
pursuant to Maryland Rule 4-247.

At the suppression hearing, Judge Williams allowed Assistant State's Attorney
Brady a full and fair opportunity to litigate the search and seizure issue. In addition, the
issue decided by Judge Williams-the legality of the aforementioned search and seizure
under the Fourth Amendment to the United States.Constitution-is the exact same issue
that is presented to this Court in this forfeiture action.

I, Lawrence B. Rosenberg, Esquire, hereby declare under the penalty of perjury
that the contents of the foregoing Affidavit are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge, information, and belief. I further declare under the penalty of perjury that the
statements made in the affidavit are made on personal knowledge and that I am
competent to testify on the matters stated.
Abel

a |

Dat

 

awrence B. Rosenberg, Esquire )

 
