IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS
HOUSTON DIVISION
ANN MARIE ROSE BAKER, M.D.,
PLAINTIFF,
V.

NO. 4:08-CV-1908

UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS HEALTH SCIENCE
CENTER – HOUSTON AND THE UNIVERSITY OF
TEXAS SYSTEM MEDICAL FOUNDATION,
DEFENDANTS.
PLAINTIFF, ANN MARIE BAKER, M.D.’S, RESPONSE TO
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO DISMISS
Plaintiff file this her Response to Defendants,
University of Texas Health Science Center – Houston and
University of Texas System Medical Foundation’s, Motion to
Dismiss for Failure to State a Claim upon Which Relief May
be Granted (doc. 12), and would show unto this Court as
follows:
I. Standard for Motion to Dismiss
1.

Pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b),

dismissal of an action is appropriate whenever the
complaint, on its face, fails to state a claim upon which
relief can be granted.

When considering a motion to

dismiss, the court should construe the allegations in the
complaint liberally and favorably to the pleader, and

accept all well-pleaded facts as true.

Plotkin v. IP Axess

Inc., 407 F.3d 690, 696 (5th Cir. 2005); Cornish v. Corr.
Servs. Corp., 402 F.3d 545, 548 (5th Cir. 2005).
2.

The Court may not look beyond the pleadings in

ruling on the motion.

Baker v. Putnal, 75 F.3d 190, 196

(5th Cir. 1996).

Motions to dismiss are disfavored and are

rarely granted.

Beanal v. Freeport-McMoran, Inc., 197 F.3d

161, 164 (5th Cir. 1999).

“The issue at [the motion to

dismiss] stage is not whether Plaintiff will prevail, but
whether they are entitled to pursue their complaint and
offer evidence in support thereof.”

Doe v. Hillsboro

Indep. Sch. Dist., 81 F.3d 1395, 1401 (5th Cir. 1996).
Although the court will not accept conclusory allegations
or unwarranted deductions of fact as true (Tuchman v. DSC
Communications Corp., 14 F.3d 1061, 1067 (5th Cir. 1994)),
dismissal is improper "unless it appears beyond doubt that
the plaintiff can prove no set of facts in support of his
claim which would entitle him to relief."

See Beanal, 197

F.3d at 164 (quoting Conley v. Gibson, 355 U.S. 41, 45-46
(1957); see also Cornish, 402 F.3d at 549.

2

II.

Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend her Complaint1
and Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.
3.

Defendants in their Motion to Dismiss pursuant to

Rule 12(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure seek
dismissal of Plaintiff’s Original Complaint.
Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss, doc. 12.

See

Defendant UTHSC-H

seeks dismissal on the ground that “Plaintiff’s claims
against it, violation of Americans with Disability Act,
Title I (ADA) are barred by the Eleventh Amendment of the
U.S. Constitution.”
4.

Id. at 1.

Plaintiff’s Original Complaint does not identify

whether the lawsuit is brought under Title I or Title II of
the Americans with Disability Act.

Defendant argues that

if the claim is brought under Title I then the Eleventh

1

The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure express a preference for
liberally granting leave to amend. See Fed. R. Civ. Pro. 15(a) ("Leave
shall be freely given when justice so requires."). “If the underlying
facts or circumstances relied upon by a plaintiff may be a proper
subject of relief, he ought to be afforded an opportunity to test his
claim on the merits. In the absence of any apparent or declared reason
-- such as undue delay, bad faith or dilatory motive on the part of the
movant, repeated failure to cure deficiencies by amendments previously
allowed, undue prejudice to the opposing party by virtue of allowance
of the amendment, futility of amendment, etc. -- the leave sought
should, as the rules require, be "freely given." Of course, the grant
or denial of an opportunity to amend is within the discretion of the
District Court, but outright refusal to grant the leave without any
justifying reason appearing for the denial is not an exercise of
discretion; it is merely abuse of that discretion and inconsistent with
the spirit of the Federal Rules.” See Foman v. Davis, 371 U.S. 178,
182 (1962).

3

Amendment bars recovery, and cites Board of Trustees of the
University of Alabama v. Garrett, 531 U.S. 356 (2000).2
5.

The proposed Amended Complaint asserts violations

language consistent with the underlying tenets of Title I,
but makes clear that the accommodation standards of Title
II form the underlying basis of the Complaint.3

2

In Garrett, the Supreme Court explained that “Congress is the final
authority as to desirable public policy, but in order to authorize
private individuals to recover money damages against the States, there
must be a pattern of discrimination b the States which violates the
Fourteenth Amendment, and the remedy imposed by Congress must be
congruent and proportional to the targeted violation. Id. at 374.
Those requirements are not met here, and to uphold the Act’s
application to the States would allow Congress to rewrite the
Fourteenth Amendment law laid down by this Court in Cleburne.” Id.

3

§ 12112, Discrimination, provides in part:
(a) General rule. No covered entity shall discriminate against a
qualified individual on the basis of disability in regard to job
application procedures, the hiring, advancement, or discharge of
employees, employee compensation, job training, and other terms,
conditions, and privileges of employment.
(b) Construction. As used in subsection (a), the term
"discriminate against a qualified on the basis of disability"
includes—
(1) limiting, segregating, or classifying a job applicant or
employee in a way that adversely affects the opportunities or
status of such applicant or employee because of the disability of
such applicant or employee;
(2) participating in a contractual or other arrangement or
relationship that has the effect of subjecting a covered entity's
qualified applicant or employee with a disability to the
discrimination prohibited by this title (such relationship
includes a relationship with an employment or referral agency,
labor union, an organization providing fringe benefits to an
employee of the covered entity, or an organization providing
training and apprenticeship programs);
(3) utilizing standards, criteria, or methods of
administration(A) that have the effect of discrimination on the basis of
disability; or

4

6.

Under Title I of the Act (employment), a "covered

entity" means an employer, employment agency, labor
organization, or joint labor-management committee.

42

U.S.C. § 12111(2).
7.

The Supreme Court in United States v. Georgia, 546

U.S. 151 (2006), held that Title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. §§ 12131 et seq.),
(B) that perpetuate the discrimination of others who are
subject to common administrative control;
(4) excluding or otherwise denying equal jobs or benefits to a
qualified individual because of the known disability of an
individual with whom the qualified individual is known to have a
relationship or association;
(5) (A) not making reasonable accommodations to the known
physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified
individual with a disability who is an applicant or employee,
unless such covered entity can demonstrate that the accommodation
would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the business
of such covered entity; or
(B) denying employment opportunities to a job applicant or
employee who is an otherwise qualified individual with a
disability, if such denial is based on the need of such covered
entity to make reasonable accommodation to the physical or mental
impairments of the employee or applicant;
(6) using qualification standards, employment tests or other
selection criteria that screen out or tend to screen out an
individual with a disability or a class of individuals with
disabilities unless the standard, test or other selection
criteria, as used by the covered entity, is shown to be jobrelated for the position in question and is consistent with
business necessity; and
(7) failing to select and administer tests concerning
employment in the most effective manner to ensure that, when such
test is administered to a job applicant or employee who has a
disability that impairs sensory, manual, or speaking skills, such
test results accurately reflect the skills, aptitude, or whatever
other factor of such applicant or employee that such test
purports to measure, rather than reflecting the impaired sensory,
manual, or speaking skills of such employee or applicant (except
where such skills are the factors that the test purports to
measure).
…

5

validly abrogated state sovereign immunity for conduct that
actually violated the Federal Constitution’s Fourteenth
Amendment.4

United States v. Georgia was brought under

Title II.
8.

Title II provides:
§ 12131. Definition.
(1) Public entity.

As used in this title:

The term "public entity" means—

(A) any State or local government;
(B) any department, agency, special purpose
district, or other instrumentality of a State
or States or local government; and
(C) the National Railroad Passenger
Corporation, and any commuter authority (as
defined in section 103(8) of the Rail
Passenger Service Act [49 USCS § 24102(4)]).
(2) Qualified individual with a disability. The
term "qualified individual with a disability" means
an individual with a disability who, with or
without reasonable modifications to rules,
policies, or practices, the removal of
architectural, communication, or transportation
barriers, or the provision of auxiliary aids and
services, meets the essential eligibility
requirements for the receipt of services or the
participation in programs or activities provided by
a public entity.

4

"This Act", referred to in this section, is Act July 26, 1990, P.L.
101-336, 104 Stat. 327, popularly referred to as the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, which appears generally as 42 USCS §§ 12101 et
seq. For full classification, consult USCS Tables volumes.
"Title IV", referred to in this section, is Title IV of Act July 26,
1990, P.L. 101-336, 104 Stat. 366, which added 47 USCS § 225, among
other things. For full classification of such Title, consult USCS
Tables volumes.
"Title I, II, III, and IV of this Act", referred to in this section,
refers to Titles I-IV of Act July 26, 1990, P.L. 101-326, 104 Stat. 330,
which appear generally as 42 USCS §§ 12111 et seq. For full
classification of such Titles, consult USCS Tables volumes.

6

State entities are clearly covered.

Section 12132 provides

that “no qualified individual with a disability shall by
reason of such disability, be excluded from participation
in or be denied the benefits of the services, programs or
activities of a public entity, or be subjected to
discrimination by any such entity.”

See generally Powell

v. National Bd. of Medical Examiners, 364 F.3d 79 (2nd Cir.
2004); see also Weixel v. Board of Education of City of New
York, 287 F.3d 138 (2nd Cir. 2002); Wong v. Regents of
University of California, 192 F.3d 807 (9th Cir. 1999).
9.

Plaintiff’s Original Complaint sets out in

Paragraph 14 that “[a]ll requests for leave of absence and
accommodations are required to be approved by the Program
Director.”
10.

Paragraph 18 references Plaintiff being able to

perform the essential functions of her job but having an
underlying need for accommodation in light of the weakness
associated with her disability.

Plaintiff contends in

paragraph 19 that when she returned to her duties in
September of 2004, the employer verbally acknowledged the
accommodations but the acceptance of same was not followed
in practice.

In Wong v. Regents of University of

California, id. at 816, the Ninth Circuit explained the

7

difference between reasonable modification and reasonable
accommodation:
Although Title II of the ADA uses the term
“reasonable modification” rather “reasonable
accommodation,” these terms do not differ in the
standard they create. See 29 U.S.C. § 794(d)
(directing that standards used to determine when
violation of Title I of the ADA has occurred also
apply to violations of section 794; 42 U.S.C. §
12111(8) (defining “qualified individual with a
disability,” against who employer may not
discriminate under Title I of the ADA, in terms of
“reasonable accommodation”); see also Zukle, 166
F.3d at 1045, n. 11 (observing that “Title II of
the ADA was expressly modeled after Section 504 of
the Rehabilitation Act [29 U.S.C. § 794], and is to
be interpreted consistently with that provision.”
(quoting Theriault v. Flynn, 162 F.3d 46, 48 n. 3
(1st Cir. 1998))). We will continue the practice
of using these terms interchangeably.
11.

UTHSC-H is a public entity and as such it must

“make reasonable modifications in policies, practices, or
procedures when the modifications are necessary to avoid
discrimination on the basis of disability.”

Id. at 818;

see also United States v. Georgia, 546 U.S. 151 (2006)
(holding that Title II of the ADA validly abrogates state
sovereign immunity insofar as the lawsuit addresses conduct
that actually violates the Fourteenth Amendment); and
Tennessee v. Lane, 541 U.S. 509 (2004) (Title II of the ADA
validly abrogates state sovereign immunity);

In context

of Fed. R. Civ. Proc. 12(b), both the Original Complaint

8

and the proposed Amended Complaint meet the pleading
requirements and are sufficient to require denial of the
motion.
12.

The Defendants are amenable to suit under Title

II, and Plaintiff’s Original Complaint and First Amended
Complaint allege sufficient facts to withstand dismissal.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
has stated that “to prevail on an ADA claim, a plaintiff
must prove that (1) he has a disability; (2) he is
qualified for the job; and (3) an adverse employment
decision was made solely because of his disability.

To

withstand a motion to dismiss, however, the plaintiff need
only allege sufficient facts that, if true, would establish
a claim for discrimination.”

See Turco v. Hoechst Celanese

Corp., 101 F.3d 1090, 1092 (5th Cir. 1997).
13.

The Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint provides

the following additional details, to-wit:
a)

A description of Plaintiff’s illness, the

treatment Plaintiff was admitted for on June 26, 2004, and
treatment available for Guillain-Barré Syndrome generally:

9

… On June 26, 2004, [Plaintiff] was readmitted
with Guillain-Barré Syndrome5 for Intravenous
immune globulin (IVIG) therapy.6
5

“Guillain-Barré syndrome is a disorder in which the body's immune
system attacks part of the peripheral nervous system. The first
symptoms of this disorder include varying degrees of weakness or
tingling sensations in the legs. In many instances, the weakness and
abnormal sensations spread to the arms and upper body. These symptoms
can increase in intensity until the muscles cannot be used at all and
the patient is almost totally paralyzed. In these cases, the disorder
is life-threatening and is considered a medical emergency. The patient
is often put on a respirator to assist with breathing. Most patients,
however, recover from even the most severe cases of Guillain-Barré
syndrome, although some continue to have some degree of weakness.
Guillain-Barré syndrome is rare. … Guillain-Barré is called a syndrome
rather than a disease because it is not clear that a specific diseasecausing agent is involved. Reflexes such as knee jerks are usually
lost. Because the signals traveling along the nerve are slower, a
nerve conduction velocity (NCV) test can give a doctor clues to aid the
diagnosis. The cerebrospinal fluid that bathes the spinal cord and
brain contains more protein than usual, so a physician may decide to
perform a spinal tap.” See NINDS Guillain-Barré Syndrome Information
Page, National Institutes of Health, National Institute for
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, available at:
http://www.ninds.nih.gov/disorders/gbs/gbs.htm.

6

“There is no cure for Guillain-Barré syndrome. However, many
treatments are available to help reduce symptoms, treat complications,
and speed up recovery. When symptoms are severe, the patient will need
to go to the hospital for breathing help, treatment, and physical
therapy. A method called plasmapheresis is used to clean a person's
blood of proteins called antibodies. Blood is taken from the body,
usually from the arm, pumped into a machine that removes the
antibodies, then sent back into the body.
High-dose immunoglobulin
therapy (IVIG) is another procedure used to reduce the severity and
length of Guillain-Barré symptoms.”
Intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) is a blood product administered
intravenously. It contains the pooled antibodies extracted from the
plasma of over one thousand blood donors. IVIG's effects last between
two (2) weeks and three (3) months. It is mainly used as treatment in
three major categories: immune deficiencies, inflammatory and
autoimmune diseases, and acute infections.
“Other treatments are directed at preventing complications. Blood
thinners may be used to prevent blood clots. If the diaphragm is week,
breathing support or even a breathing tube and ventilator may be
needed. Pain is treated aggressively with anti-inflammatory medicines
and narcotics, if needed. Proper body positioning or a feeding tube
may be used to prevent choking during feeding if the muscles for
swallowing are weak. See Guillain-Barré Syndrome, Northwestern
Memorial Hospital (reviewed June 4, 2008), at: http://www.nmh.org/nmh/

10

Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint, par. 17.
b)

A timeline of Plaintiff’s physician requested

accommodations that Defendants agreed to provide,
treatment, progress and setbacks.

The continuous

information from plaintiff’s physicians reveals the extent
of Defendants’ knowledge and disregard of the nature,
seriousness, and reality of Plaintiff’s disability.

The

Amended Complaint provides:
20. Doctors at The Institute of Rehabilitation and
Research (TIRR), Baylor College of Medicine,
repeatedly explained to Defendants that Plaintiff’s
condition required energy conservation measures and
accommodations with work and activities of daily
living.
21. Dr. Kate Hughes, PT, DPT, MS., OCS, Doctor of
Physical Therapy and Board certified Orthopedic
Clinical Specialist, TIRR, listed the physical work
accommodations to include:
1. No standing or walking for > 10 min. continuously.
2. Use of a wheelchair at work.
3. No continuous upper extremity activities. She is able
to check off forms & write short notes, but requires
accommodations for longer notes (i.e. dictation).
4. Requires 15-minute rest breaks every two hours. She may
use this time to eat snacks, as her energy expenditure
to perform routine task is high. She requires increased
caloric intake to meet or exceed her energy demands.
5. Limited work day to – 4 hours/day (5 day/week).
6. Must be able to attend medical follow up and
rehabilitation appointments on a regular basis.

22.

Plaintiff did not return to her residency duties

adam/adamency clopedia/HIE Articles/000684.htm; citing Intravenous
immunoglobulin for Guillain-Barré Syndrome, Hughes RA, Raphael JC, Swan
AV, van Doorn PA. (Cochrane Database System Rev. January 25
2006;(1):CD002063 Review.).

11

until September 2004; her return was accompanied by
restrictions imposed by her physician. The
restrictions were accepted by the Defendants; however,
as noted herein, the oral and/or written acceptance
was not followed in practice.
23. On November 25, 2004, Plaintiff was admitted to
Montgomery County Memorial Hospital (MCMH) with overuse nerve re-injury syndrome and for inpatient
rehabilitation.
24. On November 25, 2004, Plaintiff was admitted to
TIRR for extensive inpatient rehabilitation for
Guillain-Barré Syndrome.
25. In April of 2005, Plaintiff began intensive
outpatient therapy through TIRR’s Comprehensive Day
Work Program. She returned to residency duties in
July with restrictions which were accepted by Dr.
Sharon Crandell, the Program Director. The
restrictions had been modified due to Plaintiff’s
improvements in physical and occupational therapy.
26. Defendants received a Letter of Medical Necessity
dated October 3, 2005, from Dr. Teresa Kaldis, TIRR
Director of Specialty Rehabilitation Program, CoDirector Post Polio Clinic, and Assistant Professor of
Physical Medical and Rehabilitation, Baylor College of
Medicine, recommending that Plaintiff receive special
accommodations for testing (four (4) days of four (4)
hour testing with a thirty (30) minute break every two
(2) hours).
27. On May 29, 2006, Dr. Hughes provided the
following update on Plaintiff’s restrictions to Dr.
Crandell:
Dr. Baker continues to be limited by severe
fatigue. This is an extremely common sequela of
GPS and is well documented in medical literature
(Corsi and Versino, Gregory et al, Merkies et
al). Merkies represented that severe fatigue was
present in most people (`80%) who previously had
GBS despite normal strength and sensation on

12

testing.
28. Dr. Hughes explained that fatigue would be an
issue needing to be managed for the foreseeable
future; and that the already tremendous demands of
residency increase exponentially “when combined with
the serious fatigue of GBS.” She listed the steps
Plaintiff had taken to decrease household activities
and conserve her energy while completing her
residency, and noted that activity outside of work and
home had been minimized. The requested work
accommodations based on the most recent assessment
were significantly reduced:
1. No standing or walking for > 20-30 min continuously (maximum
total of standing/walking 2 hrs/work day).
2. Use of a wheelchair at work.
3. Use of dictation, voice recognition software, or a scribe
to write notes.
4. Requires 15 min rest/food breaks every 4 hours (requires
increased caloric intake due to body’s high energy
expenditure, even when function at low level).
5. Requires greater recovery time after call nights, if not
possible to obtain at least 4 hrs sleep on call nights.
Consider designating day after the day after the call night
as Dr. Baker’s day off to allow recovery from fatigue.

29. In her March 28, 2007, update/accommodations
letter, Dr. Hughes explained: “after approximately
eight months without formal physical therapy from
12/05 to 8/06, Dr. Baker resumed therapy in September
of 2006, subsequent to injuries sustained in an
accident.” Dr. Hughes believed Plaintiff’s recovery
was slowed due to her disability. For example,
Plaintiff continued to have swelling in her left foot
and bilateral lower legs up to her knees despite
repeated MRIs and X-rays revealing no orthopedic
problem responsible for the swelling.
30. Dr. Hughes noted Plaintiff’s significant progress
which had almost eliminated her wheelchair use.
However, upper extremity weakness and fatigue
continued to be problematic. The only accommodations
requested at that time were “fatigue management
strategies … Rest and caloric intake to meet energy
expenditures … Recovery time after on-call nights is
still necessary, and Dr. Baker needs opportunities to

13

eat throughout the day. These accommodations will
help decrease the effects of fatigue on her work
performance.”
Id. at par. 20-30.
c)

Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint sets out the

legal bases for Plaintiff’s claims under Title II:7
Title II of the ADA provides, that “no qualified
individual with a disability shall by reason of such
disability, be excluded from participation in or be
denied the benefits of the service, program, or
activities of a public entity, or be subjected to
discrimination by any such entity. 42 U.S.C. § 12132.
A “qualified individual with a disability” is defined
as “an individual with a disability who, with or
without reasonable modifications of rules, policies,
or practices, the removal of architectural,
communication or transportation barriers, or the
provision of auxiliary aids and services, meets the
essential eligibility requirements for the receipt of
services or the participation in programs or
activities provided by a public entity.” 42 U.S.C. §
12131(2).
Amended Complaint, par. 32-33.
d)

Additional illustrations of the Defendants’

denial of Plaintiff’s rights and privileges provided
7

It should be noted that the Amended Complaint also asserts a claim
under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 USCS § 794. The
Rehabilitation Act prohibits discrimination under any program or
activity receiving Federal financial assistance against any otherwise
qualified individual with a disability, solely because of his
disability. 29 U.S.C.S. § 794(a). Section 504’s remedies provision,
29 U.S.C. § 794 (a)(2), provides that “the remedies, procedures, and
rights set forth in Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 shall be
available to any person aggrieved by any act or failure to act by any
recipient of Federal assistance or Federal provider of such assistance
under section 504 of this title”. See Nieves-Marquez v. Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico, 353 F.3d 108, LEXIS 26253 **49-50 (1st Cir. 2003).

14

include:
On April 21, 2007, Plaintiff was pulled off the
rotation by the Program Director; Plaintiff was told
that she was medically incompetent and it was unsafe
for her to continue. The medically incompetent label
was applied because Plaintiff sought modification of
the policies and practices of the institution.
Specifically, on April 23, 2007, Dr. Crandell wrote a
note to the file of plaintiff, saying that based on an
alleged review of Plaintiff’s performance with Dr.
Tsakiri, “Ann Marie is currently functioning at a very
low level.” And “I have placed her [Plaintiff] on
medical leave of absence with instructions to see
several professionals.”
The several professionals were listed in an email from
Dr. Crandell the following day, and included Dr.
Vernon Walling, “a competent Child/Adult Psychiatrist
who has considerable experience working with patients
with ADD, … a competent internist to evaluate your
overall health,” and Pam Bass who “is very
enthusiastic about your seeing Dr. Walling wrt your
medication.” Plaintiff was required to spend the rest
of the month reading. She would not receive credit
for passing the month. The email was prefaced: “Dr.
Barratt has informed me that my expectations for you
for the rest of this month were not clear. You have
been relieved of your medical duties at LBJ.”
It is Plaintiff’s position that pulling Plaintiff off
the rotation was a continuation of Defendants’
reaction to Plaintiff’s disability and related
accommodation. In fact, the requirement that
Plaintiff visit a psychiatrist was tantamount to
labeling the disability as “defective” and/or “it’s
all in your head.”
Id. at par. 39-41.
III. The Lawsuit was Timely Filed.
14.

Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s claim against

15

both UTSMF and UTHSC-H should be dismissed because the
lawsuit was not timely filed.

It should be noted that the

Right to Sue letter was dated February 29, 2009, but
possessed a post-mark of March 18, 2008.

The lawsuit

was filed on June 16, 2008 – on the 90th day from the postmark.8

Plaintiff received the document on or about March

20, 2008 (see affidavit of Anthony P. Griffin under
attachment A herein).

The lawsuit was timely filed with

respect to the ADA claim.
IV.

The Claim Against both Parties Should Survive.

15.

Defendant contends that the Foundation should be

dismissed in this matter because the foundation was not
named in the EEOC filing.

Attachment B herein is a copy of

a letter from Defendant’s representative explaining that
the Charge named UTHSC-H as Respondent and that the charge
was forwarded the UTSMF office.

The author of the letter

writes, “because UTHSC-H did not employ Complainant.

The

University of Texas System Medical Foundation employed
Complainant, and is the appropriate and proper Respondent

8

Plaintiff requests an additional forty-five(45) days to produce the
underlying documents associated with the receipt date. The information
was tendered to Plaintiff’s counsel at the initial interview of the
client on May 8, 2008. On September 12, 2008, Hurricane Ike struck the
Island, and one-half of the active files in Plaintiff’s counsel’s
office were lost or damaged due to the flood water. Counsel’s office
is still restructuring the files and need the additional time.

16

to this Charge”.
16.

Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts that that the

appointment agreement as between Plaintiff and the
University of Texas Systems Foundation.

The Foundation

served as the administrator of the University of Texas
System/health Science Center Medical School Affiliated
Hospitals Integrated Residency Training Program (see
Plaintiff’s Original Complaint, par. 9; see Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint, par. 11).

In addition, the

Resident Physicians are appointed by UTSMF.
17.

Id.

After the appointment by UTHSC-H, the physician

is required to serve at affiliated hospitals and accept the
duties and responsibilities and rotation assignments by the
Program Director of UTHSC-H, abide by the Rules and
Regulations of the Board of Regents of UTSMF/UTHSC-H.

See

Original Complaint, par. 10; Amended Complaint, par. 12,
14.
18.

UTSMF’s documents reveal that it issued

paychecks, provided personnel services, and maintained the
records surrounding the administration of the program.

See

Original Complaint, par. 11; Amended Complaint, par. 13.
19.

The physician is then required to follow the

policies of UTHSC-H and the retention and termination from

17

the program is decided by UTHSC-H.

See Original Complaint,

par. 12; Amended Complaint, par. 14.

In that same context,

the level of responsibility is defined by employees of the
Health Science Center.

See Original Complaint, par. 13-15;

Amended Complaint, par. 14-17.
20.

Plaintiff asserts that the entities were joint

employers.

Albeit the charge of discrimination named only

UTHSC-H (charge attached under attachment C), UTSMF wrote
to convey that Plaintiff was not employed by UTHSC-H and
that the proper party for appearance was UTSMF – the charge
of discrimination was no surprise to Defendants.
21.

In the case of Tillman v. City of Boaz, 548 F.2d

592, 1877 LEXIS (5th Cir. 1977), the Fifth Circuit
explained that “[c]harges filed with the EEOC must be
liberally construed because they are made by persons who
are unfamiliar with the technicalities of formal pleadings
and who usually do not have the assistance of an attorney.”
Id. at 594.

In Tillman, the plaintiff, an employee of the

City, send a handwritten charge of discrimination that
stated simply, “I would like to file a claim against the
City of Boaz.”

It should be noted that when the lawsuit

was filed, Tillman sued the City of Boaz, the Mayor and
individual city council members.

18

Id.

The Circuit noted

that the letter was sufficient to place the Defendants on
notice.

Id.

and the Mayor.
22.

In addition, the EEOC investigated the City
Id.

In Smith v. Grattan Family Enterprises, LEXIS

18954 (E.D. Mich. 2009), the plaintiff brought a claim
under the Americans with Disabilities Act.

The Defendant

challenged the amendment to the charge naming it as a party
to the litigation.

The district court in addressing the

challenge analyzed the additional party looked to Rule 15:
Although not controlling here, this conclusion
comports with Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 15(c)
(1)(C), which allows an addition of a party to the
pleadings to relate back if the party (1) was involved
in the same conduct, transaction, or occurrence as set
for the original pleading; (2) received notice of the
action such that it will not be prejudiced in
defending on the merits and (3) “knew or should have
known that the action would have been brought against
it, but for a mistake concerning the proper party’s
identity.”
Id. at *19.9
23.

The Second Circuit in Johnson v. Palmer, 931 F.2d

203, 1991 LEXIS 7065, *17-18 (2nd Cir. 1991) explained the
9

The district court cited Budlong v. Laventhol & Horwath, 51 F.E.P. 783
(M.D. Fla. 1998) (finding that a defendant who was not named on the
EEOC charge but who served as equity partner in the company that was
named, was a proper defendant in the Title VII action because he was
the target of the charge and had actual knowledge that plaintiff was
considering filing a charge), and Drummer v. DCI Contracting, 772 F.
Supp. 821, 828 (S.D.N.Y. 1991) (finding that a defendant, who was not
on EEOC charge but who served as president of the company that was
named, was a proper defendant in the Title VII action because his
actual knowledge of the charge could be inferred). Id. at *20.

19

exception to the general rule occurs when there is an
“identity of interest”.
A prerequisite to commencing a Title VII action against
a defendant is the filing with the EEOC or authorized
state agency of a complaint naming the defendant. 42
U.S.C. § 2000e-5(e). Because these charges generally
are filed by parties not versed in the vagaries of
Title VII and its jurisdictional and pleading
requirements, we have taken a "flexible stance in
interpreting Title VII's procedural provisions,"
Egelston v. State University College at Geneseo, 535
F.2d 752, 754, 755 (2d Cir. 1976), so as not to
frustrate Title VII's remedial goals. Thus, courts
have recognized an exception to the general rule that a
defendant must be named in the EEOC complaint.
Eggleston v. Chicago Journeymen Plumbers' Local Union
No. 130, 657 F.2d 890, 905-06 (7th Cir. 1981), cert.
denied, 455 U.S. 1017 (1982). This exception, termed
the "identity of interest" exception, permits a Title
VII action to proceed against an unnamed party where
there is a clear identity of interest between the
unnamed defendant and the party named in the
administrative charge. See, e.g., Romain v. Kurek, 836
F.2d 241, 245-46 (6th Cir. 1987) (per curiam); Glus v.
G.C. Murphy Co., 562 F.2d 880, 888 (3d Cir. 1977);
Maturo v. National Graphics, Inc., 722 F. Supp. 916,
925 (D. Conn. 1989); Garcia v. Gardner's Nurseries,
Inc., 585 F. Supp. 369, 372 (D. Conn. 1984).

24.

Plaintiff’s Complaint before the Court asserts

that the Defendants are joint employers.

The Fifth Circuit

follows the four-factor test adopted by the United States
Supreme Court in the context of a labor dispute in Radio
Union v. Broadcast Service, 380 U.S. 255, 257 (1965); see
also Skidmore v. Precision Printing and Packaging, Inc.,
188 F.3d 606, LEXIS 21886 **20 (1999); Trevino v. Celanese
Corp., 701 F.2d 397 (5th Cir. 1983 (applying the Radio

20

Union test in a civil-rights context); Garcia v. Elf
Atachem North America, 28 F.3d 446, 450 (5th Cir. 1994).
Factors considered in determining whether distinct entities
constitute an integrated enterprise are (1) interrelation
of operations, (2) centralized control of labor relations,
(3) common management, and (4) common ownership or
financial control (Trevino, 701 F.2d at 404).

The Fifth

Circuit has explained that the second of the four factors
has been considered the most important factor (Schweitzer
v. Advanced Telemarketing Corp., 104 F.3d 761, 764 (5th
Cir. 1997)).
25.

In a Rule 12(b) context, Plaintiff’s pleadings

are more than sufficient to survive dismissal of UTSMF.

In

addition, if the Court is to consider evidence outside of
the pleadings, the letter dated January 4, 2008, clearly
demonstrating both parties’ participation in the
investigation by EEOC.
PRAYER FOR RELIEF
26.

Plaintiff prays that the Defendants’ Motion to

Dismiss be denied.

Plaintiff also prays that the Motion

for Leave to Amend be granted and that Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint be ordered filed by the Court.

21

DATE:

March 21, 2009.
Respectfully submitted,
/s/ ANTHONY P. GRIFFIN
__________________________
ANTHONY P. GRIFFIN
ATTORNEY-IN-CHARGE
A GRIFFIN LAWYERS
1115 MOODY
GALVESTON, TEXAS 77550
409.763.0386
1.800.750.5034
FACSIMILE NO. 409.763.4102
EMAIL: agriffin@agriffinlawyers.com

TEXAS STATE BAR NO. 08455300
FEDERAL I.D. 4736
ATTORNEYS FOR PLAINTIFF
ANN MARIE ROSE BAKER, M.D.

22

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
This is to certify that on this the 21st day of March,
2009, the foregoing Plaintiff’s Response to Defendants’
Motion to Dismiss was forwarded to opposing counsel by
electronic transmission, and/or, where noted, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to-wit:
SAM LIVELY
ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL – GREG ABBOTT
GENERAL LITIGATION DIVISION
P. O. BOX 12548, CAPITOL STATION
AUSTIN, TEXAS 78711

/S/ ANTHONY P. GRIFFIN
____________________________
ANTHONY P. GRIFFIN

c:word.baker.ann.response.motion.dismiss.2008.3068

23

