UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA
GAINESVILLE DIVISION
LISA LEE-BOLTON and RICHARD BOLTON,
on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated,
and ROY GEIERSBACH on behalf of himself,
Plaintiffs,
v.

KOPPERS INC. f/k/a KOPPERS
INDUSTRIES, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation,
BEAZER EAST, INC. f/k/a KOPPERS
COMPANY, INC., a Delaware corporation,
KOPPERS HOLDINGS, INC., a Pennsylvania
corporation, HEIDELBERG CEMENT AG,
a foreign corporation, MCCLELLAN LOGGING, INC.,
a Florida corporation, and UNNAMED
TRUCKING COMPANIES,
Defendants.

)
)
)
)
) Case No.: 1:10-cv-00253-SPM -GRJ
)
)
)

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

PLAINTIFFS’ RESPONSE IN OPPOSITION TO MOTION
OF DEFENDANTS KOPPERS INC. AND BEAZER EAST, INC. TO DISMISS

Plaintiffs respectfully submit this memorandum in opposition to the motion (Doc. 9) filed
by two of the Defendants (Koppers Inc. and Beazer East, Inc., collectively “Koppers/Beazer”) to
dismiss three Counts (I, II and V) in Plaintiffs’ Class Action Complaint (“Complaint”) (Doc. 11). For the reasons explained below, Koppers/Beazers’ Motion to Dismiss should be denied.
INTRODUCTION
In this proceeding, Representative Plaintiffs Lisa Lee-Bolton and Richard Bolton and
Named Plaintiff Geiersbach (collectively “Plaintiffs”) seek to present claims on their own behalf,

1

and Plaintiffs Bolton and Lee-Bolton seek to represent a class of their neighbors in pursuing
claims against the Defendants arising from their liability regarding their ownership, operation,
management, and/or activities upon and related to the Koppers Site, the location of a highly
contaminated wood treatment operation.
Koppers/Beazer are far from strangers to claims that their wood treatment operations
caused severe contamination. To the contrary, Beazer East, Inc. has been the subject of
numerous investigations by state and federal environmental officials, and has been held liable in
a variety of lawsuits for costs of remediating discharges of chemicals and waste in connection
with its wood treatment operations. See, e.g., Dent v. Beazer Materials and Services, Inc., and
Beazer East, Inc., 133 F.3d 914, 1998 WL 24977 (4th Cir. 1998); Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. v.
Certain Underwriters at Llyod’s, London, 59 Mass. App. Ct. 646 (Mass. App. Ct. 2003)
(summarizing investigations and litigation relating to sites for which Beazer or its successors in
interest were required to remediate, in whole or in part, in Massachusetts, California, Louisiana,
Missouri, and Florida). In connection with the Dent litigation, the trial court expressly found that
“Beazer knew its waste handling practices were unsound,” but “consciously” refused to upgrade
its waste handling system. Id. at 4.
Nor are Koppers/Beazer unaware that their activities at the Gainesville, Florida site
caused contamination to the Koppers Site. To the contrary, their wood treatment operations at
the Koppers Site have been the target of federal and state investigations since 1983.
Nonetheless, according to Koppers/Beazer, the Complaint fails to give them fair notice of
the grounds upon which Plaintiffs seek recovery for contamination caused to their properties. On
this basis, Koppers/Beazer have moved under Rule 12(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil
2

Procedure to dismiss the Complaint. As set forth below, Koppers/Beazers’ arguments in support
of their motion are baseless and unsupportable, and should be denied as such.
ARGUMENT AND CITATION OF AUTHORITY
A.

Standard for Motion to Dismiss

There is more guidance to be drawn from Bell Atl. Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544
(2007) and Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 129 S.Ct. 1937 (2009) and their progeny than is stated in
Koppers/Beazers’ motion to dismiss. As the Supreme Court held in Erickson v. Pardus, 551
U.S. 89 (2007) (per curiam) (which was issued just two weeks after Iqbal), in applying the
Twombly formulation of the Rule 12(b)(6) standard, a court must also take into account the
standard under Rule 8(a)(2), which makes clear that “Specific facts are not necessary; the
statement need only give the defendant fair notice of what the claim is and the grounds upon
which it rests.” Id. at 93.
As the Eleventh Circuit noted in overruling a dismissal under Rule 12(b)(6) in Speaker v.
U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 623 F.3d
1371, 1380 (11th Cir. 2010), in Twombly,
The Supreme Court explained that a complaint “does not need detailed factual
allegations,” but the allegations “must be enough to raise a right to relief above
the speculative level.” Furthermore, “a well-pleaded complaint may proceed even
if it strikes a savvy judge that actual proof of those facts is improbable, and that a
recovery is very remote and unlikely.”
Subsequently, in Iqbal the Supreme Court clarified that “[a] claim has facial
plausibility when the plaintiff pleads factual content that allows the court to draw
the reasonable inference that the defendant is liable for the misconduct alleged.”
Id. at 1949; see also Watts v. Fla. Int'l Univ., 495 F.3d 1289, 1295-96 (11th Cir.
2007) (“The Court has instructed us that the rule “does not impose a probability
requirement at the pleading stage,” but instead “simply calls for enough fact to
raise a reasonable expectation that discovery will reveal evidence of the necessary
3

element.”) (quoting Twombly, 550 U.S. at 556, 127 S.Ct. at 1965).
Therefore, as the Eleventh Circuit emphasized in Speaker, a complaint will survive a
motion to dismiss as long as the Plaintiff “has pleaded enough factual content to ‘nudge his
claims across the line from conceivable to plausible.’” Speaker, 623 F.3d at 1384, citing
Twombly, 550 U.S. at 570.
The Eleventh Circuit also addressed the Twombly standard in Young Apartments, Inc. v.
Town of Jupiter, 529 F.3d 1027 (11th Cir. 2008):
All of the factual allegations in the complaint must be accepted and construed in
the light most favorable to the plaintiff. Beck v. Deloitte & Touche, 144 F.3d 732,
735 (11th Cir. 1998). A motion to dismiss does not test the merits of a case, but
only requires that “the plaintiff's factual allegations, when assumed to be true,
‘must be enough to raise a right to relief above the speculative level.’” Mills v.
Foremost Ins. Co., 511 F.3d 1300, 1303 (11th Cir. 2008) (quoting Bell Atl. Corp.
v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544, 127 S.Ct. 1955, 1965, 167 L.Ed.2d 929 (2007)).
The United States Middle District of Florida observed, in Steiner-Out v. Lone Palm Golf
Club, LLC, 2010 WL 4366299 (M.D. Fla. 2010) that,
•

“In deciding a motion to dismiss, the district court is required to view the complaint in the
light most favorable to the plaintiff.” (citing Murphy v. Federal Deposit Ins. Corp., 208
F.3d 959, 962 (11th Cir.2000) and Kirby v. Siegelman, 195 F.3d 1285, 1289 (11th
Cir.1999));

•

“the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure do not require a claimant to set out in detail the
facts upon which he bases his claim. Instead, Rule 8(a)(2) requires a short and plain
statement of the claim showing that the pleader is entitled to relief in order to give the
defendant fair notice of what the claim is and the grounds upon which it rests.” (citing
Twombly);

•

“the Court must assume that all of the allegations in the complaint are true,” and

•

“The standard on a 12(b)(6) motion is not whether the plaintiff will ultimately prevail in
his or her theories, but whether the allegations are sufficient to allow the plaintiff to
conduct discovery in an attempt to prove the allegations.”

4

In sum, under Twombly, Iqbal and Erickson, this Court has been directed by the Supreme
Court to deny Koppers/Beazers’ motion to dismiss under Rule 12(b)6) if, considering all
appropriate sources, accepting as true all allegations of fact presented by the Plaintiffs and
reading all such allegations in the light most favorable to the Plaintiffs, and drawing all
reasonable inferences therefrom, the Plaintiffs’ claims are “nudged” across the line from
“conceivable to plausible” and that it gives fair notice to Koppers/Beazer of what the claim is and
the grounds upon which it rests. Plaintiffs submit that the Complaint amply meets this standard
by a wide margin.
B.

Declaratory and Injunctive Relief (Count I)

Koppers/Beazer argue that Plaintiffs’ claim for equitable and injunctive relief should be
dismissed because Koppers/Beazer asserts, wrongly, that Plaintiffs have not alleged sufficient
facts to support the elements of lack of an adequate remedy at law and irreparable harm.
Koppers/Beazer Motion to Dismiss (“MTD”), Doc. 9, pp. 4-5.
In the case of Burstein v. First Penn-Pacific Life Ins. Co., 2002 WL 34186960 (S.D. Fla.
Feb. 11, 2002) the defendant argued in a motion to dismiss that the plaintiff failed to state a claim
for injunctive relief because “she [had] a complete remedy at law and her injuries... have already
occurred.” Burstein, 2002 WL 34186960, *8. The court held that where the plaintiff alleged that
the harm was ongoing and was seeking to enjoin a continuing violation, the plaintiff had
sufficiently alleged no adequate legal remedy. Id. The court noted that “a party may pursue
claims for both money damages and injunctive relief where it is alleged that defendant is likely to
continue its tortious activities.” Id., citing Special Purpose Accounts Receivable Co-op Corp. v.
Prime One Capital Co., 125 F.Supp.2d 1093, 1105-06 (S.D. Fla. 2000). Plaintiffs have alleged
5

not that Koppers/Beazer is likely to continue their tortious activities, but that they actually are
continuing those activities. Complaint ¶¶ 55-57.
The case of County of Monroe v. Priceline.com, Inc., cited by Koppers/Beazer to support
its argument that Plaintiffs’ claim for equitable and injunctive relief should be dismissed for
failure to state a prima facie claim (MTD, p. 5), is easily distinguishable. There, the county of
Monroe sought an injunction in furtherance of its taxing power, and had “a host of
administrative, civil, and criminal enforcement remedies to ensure compliance with tax laws.”
County of Monroe v. Priceline.com, Inc., 2009 WL 4890664, *6 (S.D. Fla. 2009). The county
could not receive an injunction where it failed to explain the inadequacy of those remedies. See
id. Furthermore, the court was concerned that the relief sought would “essentially require a
federal district court to indefinitely oversee the administration of a municipal tax ordinance.” Id.
Plaintiffs, by contrast, do not have remedies other than civil litigation. The harm to Plaintiffs is
continuing not only in the sense that the contamination persists on their properties – as long as
activity continues on the Koppers Site without effective monitoring and mitigation measures, that
activity will cause additional contamination to migrate onto Plaintiffs’ properties. Even while
this litigation progresses, Plaintiffs continue to be harmed anew.
Plaintiffs have alleged that there is continuing activity on the Koppers Site that is causing
further and continuing contamination. Complaint ¶¶ 55-57. Plaintiffs have alleged that Koppers
is currently conducting activities on the Koppers Site that are causing contamination of Plaintiffs’
and Class members’ properties. Complaint ¶ 57. Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts to
support their claims of inadequate remedy at law and a serious risk of continuing irreparable
harm if the relief is not granted.
6

C.

Water Quality Assurance Act, § 376.30, et seq., Florida Statutes (Count II)

Florida’s Water Quality Assurance Act (“WQAA”), Florida Statutes (“F.S.”) §
376.313(3) provides that “nothing contained in ss. 376.30-376.317 prohibits any person from
bringing a cause of action in a court of competent jurisdiction for all damages resulting from a
discharge or other condition of pollution covered by ss. 376.30-376.317... in any such suit, it is
not necessary for such person to plead or prove negligence in any form or manner. Such person
need only plead and prove the fact of the prohibited discharge or other pollutive condition and
that it has occurred.” F.S. § 376.313(3).
Koppers/Beazer argue that the SCTL is not a “standard” sufficient to establish a violation
of the WQAA because the SCTL for dioxin has to do with soil and not air or water quality.
MTD, p. 6 n. 3. However, Table II, Soil Cleanup Target Levels of Fla. Admin. Code R.62777.170 (a portion of which is attached as Exhibit A), in addition to standards for residential
exposure, also lists standards for “Leachability Based on Groundwater Criteria” and
“Leachability Based on Freshwater Surface Water Criteria.” (Exhibit A). The SCTL standard
under surface water leachability for dioxin is 0.6 pg/g, actually lower than the SCTL for
residential dioxin contamination. As evidenced by Exhibit A, the SCTL are clearly “relating to
air and water quality,” thereby meeting the definition of “standard” under F.S. 403.803(13).
Furthermore, the WQAA clearly contemplates liability for contamination of lands,
thereby implicitly accepting that violations of standards for contamination of lands constitute
violations of the WQAA. The WQAA provides that “It shall be a violation of this chapter and it
shall be prohibited for any reason: (a) to discharge pollutants or hazardous substances into or
upon the surface or ground waters of the state or lands, which discharge violates any
7

departmental “standard” as defined in s. 403.803(13).” F.S. § 376.302(1)(a) (emphasis added).
F.S. 403.803(13) defines “standard” as “any rule of the Department of Environmental Protection
relating to air and water quality...” F.S. § 403.803(13). Plaintiffs do reference the Soil Cleanup
Target Level (“SCTL”) for dioxin, and that contamination was found near Plaintiff Geiersbach’s
property in amounts exceeding the SCTL for dioxin. Complaint ¶ 28.
According to the WQAA, “discharge” “includes, but is not limited to, any spilling
leaking, seeping, pouring, misapplying, emitting, emptying, releasing or dumping of any
pollutant or hazardous substance which occurs and which affects lands and the surface and
ground waters of the state...” F.S. § 376.301(13) (emphasis added). Regarding legislative intent,
F.S. § 376.30 states: “The legislature finds and declares: (a) That certain lands and waters of
Florida constitute unique and delicately balanced resources and that the protection of these
resources is vital to the economy of this state...” F.S. § 376.30(1)(a) (emphasis added). There
are at least three explicit references in the WQAA to contamination of lands being a violation of
that statute. See F.S. §§ 376.302(1)(a), 376.301(13), and 376.30(1)(a). Thus, contrary to
Koppers/Beazers’ assertions, violations of the WQAA are not limited to contamination of water,
but include the discharge of hazardous substances onto land as well. It defies logic to suggest
that widespread dissemination of dust contaminated with hazardous substances onto lands would
not threaten the integrity of Florida’s water systems, which is likely why the legislature clearly
expressed its intent for the discharge of hazardous substances onto lands to be a violation of the
WQAA. See F.S. § 376.30(1)(a).
Plaintiffs have alleged that “various toxic substances discharged by Defendants have
contaminated [Plaintiffs’] property. . . [Plaintiffs and Class members] have been and are exposed
8

to those toxins through contact with the soil on their properties, including airborne soil caused by
wind and soil borne by storm water runoff, and through contact with the groundwater.”
(Complaint ¶ 26). Plaintiffs have alleged contamination of the groundwater as well, stating that
the well on Named Plaintiff Geiersbach’s property was so contaminated with hazardous
substances from the Koppers Site that Beazer East threatened to obtain a court order to shut
down the well if Named Plaintiff Geiersbach would not consent to shutting it down. Complaint ¶
27.
Koppers/Beazers’ reliance on The St. Joe Co. v. Leslie, 912 So.2d 21 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App.
2005) is inapplicable at this stage of the litigation. St. Joe was decided in the context of a motion
for class certification. St. Joe, 912 So.2d at 24. The St. Joe court was concerned with a lack of
evidence rather than the sufficiency of the pleadings. Id. at 24-25. Plaintiffs are not required to
oppose Koppers/Beazers’ Motion to Dismiss with evidence. Based on the pleadings, the proper
purview of a Motion to Dismiss, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged a cause of action for
violation of the WQAA.
Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts to establish a cause of action against Koppers/Beazer
for violation of the WQAA. Plaintiffs allege that Koppers/Beazer discharged and released
hazardous substances that contaminated Plaintiffs’ properties. Complaint ¶¶ 21, 23. Plaintiffs
allege that the contamination was present not only in airborne dust, but in surface water and
groundwater. Complaint ¶¶ 24, 26. Clearly the contamination on and around Plaintiffs’
properties entered any surface water flowing on or over Plaintiffs’ properties, including rainwater
runoff. Plaintiffs also reference the SCTL for dioxin, and allege that samples taken from near
Named Plaintiff Geiersbach’s property exceeded that SCTL. Complaint ¶ 28. As described,
9

above, the SCTL for dioxin is a standard as contemplated by the WQAA, and a discharge
exceeding that standard is a violation of the WQAA. Thus, Plaintiffs have sufficiently pled a
cause of action against Koppers/Beazer for violation of the WQAA.
D.

Negligence Per Se (Count IV)1

Count IV asserts a cause of action, under a negligence per se theory, based on violations
of “the Florida Air and Water Pollution Control Act, §403.11 et seq., Florida Statutes and/or
Florida?s Water Quality Assurance Act, Fl. Stat. §376.30, et seq., Florida Statutes.” Complaint ¶
82. According to Koppers/Beazer, this Count should be dismissed because “Plaintiffs’ reliance
on these statutes is dubious” because, in Koppers/Beazers’ view, these statutes are not intended
to protect a particular class of people, but only the general public at large. MTD, p. 7.
Koppers/Beazer cite no authority for this proposition. In fact, one district court in Florida has
held that the WQAA, § 376.30, et seq., Florida Statutes met “[t]he negligence per se element
requiring that the controlling statute be designed to protect a particular class of persons from a
particular injury or type of injury” because it “provides for a private cause of action and is
therefore intended to protect those damaged by discharges or other conditions of pollution. . .”
Italiano v. Jones Chemicals, Inc., 1997 WL 118426, *4 (M.D. Fla. 1997). And the statutory
language invoked by Koppers/Beazer (MTD, p. 8) simply provides no support for this
proposition since these passages merely indicate the reasons why the Legislature was enacting
these statutes, not the actual scope, nature or effect of the other provisions enacted by the
Legislature through these Acts.
1

Count IV of the Complaint asserts two causes of action, one for negligence and one for
negligence per se. Koppers/Beazer have not moved to dismiss Plaintiffs’ cause of action for
negligence. See generally, MTD, Doc. 9.
10

Moreover, Plaintiffs have properly pleaded that they “are members of the class of people
that [these statutes] were designed to protect, and the harm suffered is of the type that the Acts
were designed to prevent.” Complaint ¶ 82. Recognizing that these allegations undermine their
motion to dismiss this Count, Koppers/Beazer suggests that these allegations be ignored because
they are “unsupported.” MTD, p. 8. This is not the applicable standard. Plaintiffs are not
required to provide support for their allegations. Rather, this Court is directed to accept
Plaintiffs? allegations – whether supported or unsupported – as true and correct. See, SteinerOut, supra (“the Court must assume that all of the allegations in the complaint are true”). Hence,
Koppers/Beazers’ attack on the applicability of the Florida statutes invoked in Count IV is simply
baseless.
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, Koppers/Beazers’ Motion to Dismiss should be denied in its
entirety. To the extent that any portion of Koppers/Beazers’ Motion to Dismiss is granted,
Plaintiffs request leave to amend the Complaint to address and remedy any alleged deficiency.
Respectfully submitted this 27th day of September 2011.

/s/ Paul S. Rothstein
Paul S. Rothstein
Attorney for Plaintiffs
Florida Bar No.: 310123
626 N. E. First Street
Gainesville, Florida 32601
Phone: (352) 376-7650
Fax: (352) 374-7133
psr@rothsteinforjustice.com

11

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on September 27, 2011 I electronically filed the foregoing
with the Clerk of the Court by using the CM/ECF system, which will send a notice of electronic
filing to all counsel of record in this action.
/s/ Paul S. Rothstein
Paul S. Rothstein

12

