IN THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS
Raymond G. Farmer, in his capacity as
Liquidator of Consumers’ Choice Health
Insurance Company, and Michael J.
FitzGibbons, in his capacity as Special
Deputy Liquidator of Consumers’ Choice
Health Insurance Company,
Plaintiffs,
vs.
The United States of America,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

No. 17-363C
Judge Campbell-Smith

PLAINTIFFS’ RESPONSE TO THE GOVERNMENT’S MOTION
TO STAY OR, ALTERNATIVELY, FOR AN ENLARGMENT OF TIME
Raymond G. Farmer and Michael J. FitzGibbons (“Plaintiffs”)1 respond to and oppose the
United States of America’s (“the Government”) Motion to Stay Proceedings or, in the Alternative,
for an Enlargement of Time. (See ECF No. 5.) The Government argues that because the issues in
this case “mirror” the issues in a number of prior-filed cases, this case should be indefinitely stayed
to conserve resources pending the resolution of the prior-filed cases. As explained below, however,
the conservation of resources is not a sufficient basis upon which to indefinitely stay a case and to
deny a party a prompt resolution of its grievances. For this reason, in every other case raising
similar legal issues in which the Government’s motion for a stay was opposed by the plaintiff, the
stay has been denied. This Court should likewise deny the Government’s Motion.2

1

Mr. Farmer is the Director of the South Carolina Department of Insurance and is the Liquidator
of Consumers’ Choice Health Insurance Company (“Consumers’ Choice”) appointed by the
Richland County Court of Common Pleas in the pending insolvency proceeding (Civil Action No.
2016-CP-40-00034). Mr. FitzGibbons is the Special Deputy Liquidator of Consumers’ Choice
appointed by the Richland County Court of Common Pleas.
2

Prior to the expiration of the May 18, 2017 deadline to file an Answer, this Court granted the

ARGUMENT
A court’s discretion to manage its docket is bounded by due regard for a plaintiff’s interests
in obtaining justice for its cause. See Clinton v. Jones, 520 U.S. 681, 706–07 (1997) (concluding
a district court abused its discretion in granting a stay); Cherokee Nation of Okla. v. United States,
124 F.3d 1413, 1416 (Fed. Cir. 1997) (stating the discretion to stay “is not . . . without bounds”)
(citing Hendler v. United States, 952 F.2d 1364, 1380 (Fed. Cir. 1991)); Nat’l Food & Bev. Co. v.
United States, 96 Fed. Cl. 258, 263 (2010) (noting the discretion to stay “is not unbounded”).
This Court’s determination of whether to stay a case is guided by a tripartite test established
by the Federal Circuit: (1) the trial court must first identify a pressing need for the stay; (2) the
court must then balance interests favoring a stay against interests frustrated by the action; and
(3) the court’s balancing analysis must be mindful of the overarching and paramount obligation to
exercise jurisdiction timely in cases properly before the court. Cherokee Nation of Okla, 124 F.3d
at 1416; see also Commonwealth Edison Co. v. United States, 46 Fed. Cl. 29, 34 (2000), aff’d, 271
F.3d 1327 (Fed. Cir. 2001) (same); Freeman v. United States, 83 Fed. Cl. 530, 533 (2008) (same).
Under this formula, the proponent of a stay bears the burden of establishing that the stay is
necessary. Clinton, 520 U.S. at 708; St. Bernard Par. Gov’t v. United States, 99 Fed. Cl. 765, 771
(2011). When the requested stay is indefinite, the movant must establish the first two of the three
factors listed above, namely a “pressing need” for the stay and that the interests favoring a stay
outweigh the opposing party’s interests. Cherokee Nation, 124 F.3d at 1416 (discussing the

Government a 30-day extension of time based on the Government’s representation in its Motion
that Plaintiffs did not object to an extension of that length. (See ECF No. 6.) The Court deferred
its consideration of the Government’s request for a stay or, alternatively, for a 60-day extension of
time until briefing on the motion was completed. (Id.)
2

Government’s request for an indefinite stay to await the resolution of other lawsuits whose
outcomes would allegedly affect the Cherokee Nation’s claims in the Court of Federal Claims).
To satisfy the initial burden of demonstrating a pressing need, the Government “must make
out a clear case of hardship or inequity in being required to go forward, if there is even a fair
possibility that the stay for which [the Government] prays will work damage to someone else.”
Landis v. N. Am. Co., 299 U.S. 248, 256 (1936). It is an abuse of discretion for a trial court to
issue a stay of indefinite duration “in the absence of a pressing need.” Id.; see Clinchfield Coal Co.
v. United States, 102 Fed. Cl. 592, 596 (2011) (“Stays of indefinite duration require a showing of
a pressing need.”).
Here, the Government has not and cannot meet this burden. The sole basis asserted by the
Government in support of a stay is its hope to conserve the Court’s and the parties’ resources. See
Gov.’s Mot. at 4–5 (ECF No. 5). But “[o]nly in rare circumstances will a litigant in one cause be
compelled to stand aside while a litigant in another settles the rule of law that will define the rights
of both.” Landis, 299 U.S. at 255. Furthermore, the conservation of resources is not a “pressing
need” for a stay that outweighs Consumers’ Choice’s interest in litigating this case. Even if the
issues in Consumers’ Choice’s lawsuit are similar to those raised in, for example, the Land of
Lincoln suit that is on appeal to the Federal Circuit, a central function of the appellate courts is to
consider the different viewpoints of the lower courts. “It logically follows that lower courts must
be free to consider similar facts and reach independent conclusions—otherwise, there would be no
need for an appellate court to harmonize the law within a circuit.” See Opinion and Order Denying
Defendant’s Motion to Stay, Moda Health Plan, Inc. v. United States, No. 16-649 (Fed. Cl. Nov.
28, 2016) (Wheeler, J.), ECF No. 12 at 2.

3

Further, Plaintiffs are entitled to the counsel of their choice and to develop their arguments
as they deem fit. Consumers’ Choice, no less than any other plaintiff, is entitled to be heard,
regardless of whether other plaintiffs with similar claims filed their complaints earlier in time. In
a similar case concerning risk corridors, Judge Merow denied the Government’s motion to stay
and addressed this point specifically:
The existence of separate, active cases that will at some point in the
future have outcomes that are potentially relevant for the issues
raised by plaintiff in this case simply does not militate in favor of a
stay. Such simultaneous litigation is common not only within
circuits around the country, but also on the various dockets at this
court.
Opinion and Order Denying Defendant’s Motion to Stay, Maine Cmty. Health Options v. United
States, No. 16-967 (Fed. Cl. Dec. 2, 2016) (Merow, J.), ECF No. 16 at 2. That sentiment is
applicable in this case. The mere fact that resolution of other actions could provide guidance that
could affect the resolution based on assertions of what could happen in related actions does not
meet the “pressing need” standard.
Moreover, the balancing of the parties’ interests also weigh against granting a stay, because
Consumers’ Choice’s interests would be unduly frustrated by a stay. See Landis, 299 U.S. at 255
(stating a stay would not be appropriate where there is “a fair possibility that the stay . . . will work
damage” to the non-moving party); Cherokee Nation, 124 F.3d at 1416. Consumers’ Choice filed
this lawsuit and opposes a delay of this case because of the Government’s decision not to timely
make required risk corridors payments and the potential that Consumers’ Choice will not receive
the payments it is entitled to by law. Additionally, without the Government’s promised funds,
Consumers’ Choice’s premium structure was not sufficient to support its ongoing operation. The
delay in payments forced Consumers’ Choice to exit the marketplace and will further delay the

4

winding up of Consumers’ Choice’s affairs. Plaintiffs’ good-faith desire for a decision on the
merits as soon as practicable eclipses whatever limited conservation of resources might be obtained
by a stay.
The third part of the formula also favors denial of the Government’s Motion because the
Court has a “paramount obligation to exercise jurisdiction timely in cases properly before it.”
Cherokee Nation, 124 F.3d at 1416. Indeed, in every risk corridors case in which the Government
has moved for a stay and the plaintiff opposed the motion, the request has been denied. See Opinion
and Order Denying Defendant’s Motion to Stay, Moda Health Plan, Inc. v. United States, No. 16649 (Fed. Cl. Nov. 28, 2016) (Wheeler, J.), ECF No. 12; Order, Maine Cmty. Health Options v.
United States, No. 16-967 (Fed. Cl. Dec. 2, 2016) (Merow, J.), ECF No. 16; Order, Montana
Health CO-OP v. United States, No. 16-1427 (Fed. Cl. Dec. 14, 2016) (Wolski, J.), ECF No. 16;
Order, HPHC Insurance Co. v. United States, No. 17-00087 (Fed. Cl. Feb. 21, 2017) (Griggsby,
J.), ECF No. 8. The same result should obtain here. As articulated in Landis and recognized by
Judge Merow in Maine Community Health Options, a plaintiff should be free to pursue its
legitimate complaints, and not have its rights or obligations determined by the fate of parties in
other cases.
The foregoing reasoning similarly militates against the Government’s request for yet
another 30 days (for a total 60-day enlargement of time) to file its Answer. First, the Government
has identified no particular need—much less a pressing one—for an additional extension of time.
Rather, the Government admits the claims in this suit “mirror” the claims in prior-filed suits in
which the Government has already filed an Answer. Second, the further delay that will be caused
by an additional enlargement of time frustrates Plaintiffs’ interest in an expeditious resolution of
this matter and an efficient winding down of Consumers’ Choice’s affairs. Finally, the further
5

delay of progress in this suit impinges on this Court’s obligation to timely exercise its jurisdiction.
Accordingly, Plaintiffs opposed any extension of time beyond the 30-day extension to which they
consented and which this Court has already granted.
CONCLUSION
The Government has not and cannot demonstrate a pressing need for a stay. Further,
granting a stay frustrates Plaintiffs’ interests and impedes this Court’s obligation to timely exercise
jurisdiction in this case. For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs respectfully request this Court deny
the Government’s Motion to Stay Proceedings or, in the Alternatively, for an Enlargement of Time.

Respectfully submitted,
NELSON MULLINS RILEY & SCARBOROUGH LLP

By: s/ C. Mitchell Brown
C. Mitchell Brown
Counsel of Record
E-Mail: mitch.brown@nelsonmullins.com
Thad H. Westbrook*
E-Mail: thad.westbrook@nelsonmullins.com
Miles E. Coleman*
E-Mail: miles.coleman@nelsonmullins.com

1320 Main Street / 17th Floor
Post Office Box 11070 (29211-1070)
Columbia, SC 29201
(803) 799-2000
*Of counsel

Attorneys for Plaintiffs Raymond G. Farmer, in his capacity as
Liquidator of Consumers’ Choice Health Insurance Company,
and Michael J. FitzGibbons, in his capacity as Special Deputy
Liquidator of Consumers’ Choice Health Insurance Company

6

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on May 22, 2017, a copy of Plaintiffs’ Response to the Government’s
Motion to Stay or, Alternatively, for an Enlargement of Time was filed electronically with the
Court’s Electronic Case Filing (“ECF”) system. I understand that notice of this filing will be sent
to all parties by operation of the Court’s ECF system.

s/ C. Mitchell Brown
C. Mitchell Brown
Attorney for Plaintiffs Raymond G. Farmer, in his capacity as
Liquidator of Consumers’ Choice Health Insurance Company,
and Michael J. FitzGibbons, in his capacity as Special Deputy
Liquidator of Consumers’ Choice Health Insurance Company

