Case 8:14-cv-03124-TDC Document 28 Filed 11/23/14 Page 1 of 7

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
SOUTHERN MARYLAND
NORMAN WILLIAMS, et al.,
Plaintiffs,
v.
Case No: 8: 14-CV-03124-TDC

ROMARM S.A.,
Defendant.

PLAINTIFFS' MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A SURREPLY UNDER THE
RULES DUE TO SUBSTANTIAL ERRATA
Plaintiffs, Norman Williams, et al., have discovered serious effors in Defendant,
Romarm's Reply to Plaintiffs' Opposition to its Motion to Dismiss, that is vital to the
Court's consideration of the Defendant's Motion to Dismiss and Plaintiffs' Opposition.

Plaintiffs

,' invoke Local Rule 105 2.a. for permission

of this Court to allow Plaintiffs'

Surreply.

CORRECTED POINTS OF LAW DUE TO DEFENDANT'S ERRATA:

I
Romarm's Reply, in Sec. I asserts: 66Plaintiffs, Lawsuit Was Not Timelv

@g!@"
Romarm asserts: in I, (2): "Plaintiffs must establish that the current lawsuit was
commenced within 30 days of the Order from the District Court for the District

of

Columbia dismissing the lawsuit. Ibid. Plaintiffs simply cannot satisfy these elements."
Reply, at 2. Romarm is contending that the Plaintiffs have refiled their case too late to
take advantage of Maryland's Rule 2-101(b) (Savings Statute).
1

Case 8:14-cv-03124-TDC Document 28 Filed 11/23/14 Page 2 of 7

Errata: Rormarm's Assertion Resardins Re-filins Incorrectlv States the Filins
Period Allowed Bv RULE 2-101ft)
Footnote to Rule 2-101(b) states, with utmost clarity, tt ut uny limitation is
suspended until "appellate proceedings are concluded". Below is the Footnote to Rule 2-

101(b) which Romarm ignores:

Rule harmonious with 28 U.S.C.S. Sec. 1367(d). --- 28 U.S.C.S.
Sec. 1367(d) ... Further, the suspension [of the running of limitations]
remains in effect until 30 days after all federal proceedings, including
appellate proceedings, are concluded. Subsection (b) of this Rule can
be read in harmony with Sec. 1367(d). Turner v. Kight, 406}y'rd. 167,
957A.2d984,2008 Md. LEXIS 518 (2008), cert. denied, 129S.Ct. 1985,
2009 U.S. LEXIS 3037,173L.Ed.2d 1084 (U.S. 2009) (emphasis added)
Consequently, when Plaintiffs, Norman Williams and Diane Howe, refiled their
case in the

Circuit Court of Prince George's County, on September 2,2014, the date

the Mandate of the USCA was issued, which affirmed the dismissal of the United States

District Court for the District of Columbia, it was timely filed,

as the "appellate

proceedings" had just concluded in the D.C. Circuit. DKT.34.Later,this case was
removed here by means of the Foreign Sovereign Immunity Act (FSIA).

II
Errata: Romarm's Assertions that Plaintiffs'Amended Complaint - To Include 2
Amended Parties - was Not Sustainable in the Former Court Has No Basis Under
Rule 15(a).
Also, under Sec. I, Romarm asserts that the former district court has precluded the
Amended Complaint to include parties, Kevin Attaway and Jamael Blakely, due to "an
order permanently striking the motion for leave to amend because" of a ["technicality"].

Reply, at2. Yet, there could exist no "technicality" that could have caused Plaintiffs'

Motion to be stricken.
What Romarm fails to acknowledge, is, that under Rule 15(a) of the Federal

Case 8:14-cv-03124-TDC Document 28 Filed 11/23/14 Page 3 of 7

Rules of Procedure, there is an "absolute" right to Amend a pleading, once, before the
Defendant files a "Responsive Pleading". Romarm's assertions simply compound an
error made by the former court when it did not recognize that fact.

At the time the Plaintiffs' filed an unnecessary "Motion for Leave of Court to
Amend [the] Pleadings" on 1010312012 [DKT,17-1], in the former District Court, they
already had an "absolute" right to amend to amend their Complaint. Romarm, up to that

point [on 0511412012], had filed merely an "amended MOTION to Dismiss [Plaintiffs'
case]..

." [Dkt. 6]. It had yet to file a "pleading" in the former case. Therefore, no leave of

court was necessary for Plaintiffs to amend as a matter of right, to include parties,

Kevin Attaway and Jamel Blakeley.
Federal Rule (15(a) is clear on the right to amend oncebefore a Responsive

Pleading is filed. Rule 15(a),
guarantee[s] a plaintiff an absolute right to amend [their] complaint
once at any time before the defendant has filed a responsive pleading.
(cit.om.) And the District of Columbia Circuit has 'repeatedly clarified'
that motions to dismiss, even which seek summary judgment in the
alternative, are not responsive pleadings for the purposes of Rule 15.
Doev. U.S. Dept. of Labor,451 F.Supp.2d156,17l (D.D.C.2006)
(emphasis added). see also Bowdenv. United States,176F.3d552,555
(D.C.Cir.2000) (noting that "[a]t the time [the plaintiff] sought to amend,
the [defendant] had filed only a motion to dismiss ... which is not considered
a responsive pleading) (citation omitted)."

m
Third, Romarm, in its Reply, at Sec. II, A, asserts:

('A.

The Law of the Case Doctrine and Principles of Judicial Comity
Establish That Romarm is an Independent Entity for Purposes of Due Process
Analvsis."

Errata: nomarm's lssertion C
Or To a Lesser Degree. Comity. When the D.C.Circuit Declined to Rule on the Very

Case 8:14-cv-03124-TDC Document 28 Filed 11/23/14 Page 4 of 7
Ouestion Romarm Contends is the (I,aw of the Case,'.
Romarm's asserts that there is "Law of the Case Doctrine" firhich governs this case,
carried over from the former case, which would deny the Plaintiffs here the opportunity

to prove, at least, minimally, limited jurisdictional discovery (or to show on aprimafacie

jurisdiction) that Romarm, appears to have a "principal-agent relationship with the
sovereign state of Romania and therefore considered to be part of the foreign state, rather
than a "private person" entitled to constitutional due process protection". Reply, at 4-7
Once the appeals court in the District of Columbia declined to rule on whether

Romarm was an agent of the sovereign state of Romania, it does not then follow that
there was Law of the Case, or Comity, to rule out such evidence being presented here on

the question of whether Romarm is a part of the "sovereign state" and, if found as such,

would be denied constitutional due process in the United States Courts.
The D.C. Circuit was quite adamant on what it refused to hear, and, or decide, on
appeal, in regard to the question of Romarm's "sovereign status" under the FSIA, which,

if found to be such, would automatically provide Subject Matter and Personal
Jurisdiction through the FSIA. This is what the D.C. Circuit had to say on the question:

At oral argument, Appellants primarily challenged the district
court's conclusion that Romarm is jurdically independent from Romania
and thus entitled to due process. Specifically, Appellants pointed to a

claimed "concession" by Romarm that it is both owned and operatedby
Romania. This concession, they say, establishes Romarm as a state entity
that it is not entitled to due process. (emphasis in text)
However weighty this argument may be, we decline to consider it
it in their briefs. Nowhere in their filings
do Appellants cite to the document containing the alleged ooconcession" by
Romarm on which they so heavily relied at oral argument. ... (emphasis
added)
because Appellants failed to raise

Questions not presented and argued by the parties in a sequence

r
Case 8:14-cv-03124-TDC Document 28 Filed 11/23/14 Page 5 of 7

affording appropriate consideration are forfeited, and we accordingly
decline to rule on the issue since it was not properly raised. Williams,
et aI., v. Romarm SA, et a1.,656F.3d777,782. (D.CrCir.20l4) (emphasis
added)

The refusal by the D.C. Circuit to consider arguments whether Romarm was
an agent or instrumentality under the control of the Romanian sovereign, is the so-called
i
i

Law of the Case Doctrine, or Comity, that it now relies on here: that a question left
unresolved in the former court can magically re-appear as a Law of the Case. The best
expression of a court declining to rule on a question and which would therefore deny

it

Law of the Case status, is found in the language of Flores v. Cooper Tire and Rubber
Co., 178 P.3d 1176,1181 (Ariz.App.Div.1 2008):
The doctrine [Law of the Case] provides that

"if

an appellate court

has ruled upon a legal question and remanded for further proceedings,
the legal question thus determined by the appellate court will not be
differently determined on a subsequent appeal in the same case. (cits.om)

Because Cooper did not raise the waiver issue in its special action
petition and we expressly declinedto address waiver, there has beenno
prior appellate decision on waiver, and law of the case is inapplicable.
(emphasis added)

Romarm's reliance on its Law of the Case argument is no more sympathetic here.

It cannot be allowed to invoke a doctrine for an issue that was not decided. This District
Court is left free to decide this issue without any encumbrance by the doctrine. This
Court could hardly issue a "conflicting order" under the Doctrine when the issue

of

Romarm's state sovereignty has never been reached and there is no Comity present.
Moreover, it is an issue of Subject Matter Jurisdiction which may be raised at any time.

"II. B. Plaintiffs

are Bound by the Allegations in their Complaint.

Errataz Plaintiffs' Complaint Cannot Be Bound By "Legal Effect".
5

Case 8:14-cv-03124-TDC Document 28 Filed 11/23/14 Page 6 of 7

Fourthly, Defendant, Romarm, at Reply, 7, asserts that "Plaintiffs' refiled
Complaint ... actually establish Defendant's independent status as a private corporation
operation in the marketplace." Reply, at 7
Romarm cites no authority for such a conclusory opinion, that a Complaint, on its
face, can ultimately decide Romarm's "legal status", and it must be given "presumptive

independent status", separate from the Romanian government, simply because

of

Romarm's engagement in "commercial activity".
Obviously, "commercial activity" does not, ipso facto, rule out the fact that a
foreign state agency-partnership may still be shown with the Romanian govemment
to divest it from due process consideration.
'oV. Plaintiffs' Arguments Resarding Venue Establish That Plaintiffs
Are Impermissiblv Forum Shopping."

Errata: "[L]ead plaintiffNorman Williams [did not] 'maintain[]' a "temporary
residence' in the District of Columbia in order to bring a lawsuit in that forum..."
Fifth, by innuendo, Romarm clearly assumes facts that are not in evidence, by its
bald assertion that the Plaintiffs' are impermissibly forum shopping, by its suggestion
that Norman

Williams' moved into the District of Columbia to a o'temporary residence",

to take advantage of the former forum and later moved here to establish a new venue.
Romarm summarily ignores the "Declaration" of Mr. Williams that he has been

domiciled in the State of Maryland since 1980, and that the only explanation for him
having a District of Columbia address, in the former suit, is that he was living
temporarily in the District of Columbia at the time of his son's death , andlor shortly
thereafter. The mother of J.H. [Plaintiff Diane Howe] continues to live in the District

Columbia
6

of

Case 8:14-cv-03124-TDC Document 28 Filed 11/23/14 Page 7 of 7

His "declared" permanent residency in the State of Maryland does not hint at the
the kind of chicanery Romarm wishes to pursue in its desire to impose "impermissible

forum shopping" on this distraught parent who lost his son due to the discharge of one

of

Romamr's weapons.
The fact that Mr. Williams' son, J.H., was killed in the District of Columbia,

by a Romarm's assault weapon, from a Maryland dealer, is, in and of itself sufficient to
establish venue here, if it was an "act" of negligence, or public nuisance, that caused the
weapon to be brought illegally into the District of Columbia under its Assault Weapons

Manufacturing Strict Liability Act (SLA), D.C. Code Sec. 7-2501.01. The focal point of
"tortious injury" occurs from "acts" that are alleged to have begun in the State of
Maryland. See Comp. Par. 15.

CONCLUSION
Defendant, Romarm, is not justified in using its Reply to misconstrue the rules,

law and fact to put on a defense in a more favorable light than is warranted and this must
be corrected by leave ofleave ofcourt.

Resnectfully submitted.

/? .

Wffiffi
A

Arlington, YA22204
(703) s&e-2tee

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certifr that I have filed the above Motion for Leave through the ECF
system to opposing counsels, on this date, the 23nd ofNovember 2014.

