FfLED
IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA

Alexandria Division

2011 FEB ~b P 208
pi - •"/1 • "

'

• •• V- • ^

PAULA. BOYNE

•_ X

CaseNo. l:17SWl'Wnder Seal '•

.

V.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BRIEF TO IN SUPPORT OF MOTION TO UNSEAL

In the public interest, the court is asked to unseal this matter in exercise of public scrutiny

rights contained in the First Amendment. The public has voiced, through elected officials in the
State of Connecticut, a grave concern for judicial retaliation by judges of the Superior Court,

Family Division. The news of this federal action of concern over 'escalating memes' did shock
the conscious of members of the public and elected representatives alike. There is public and
private suspicion that criminal conduct under 18 USC §241 was involved in obtaining a search &

seizure warrant to silence public criticism of a public figure in a public forum. The federal court

did unwittingly participate in such criminal activity which was nothing more than misconductof
state and federal actors using governmental police action to silence political criticism of
controversial public figures.

The First Amendment does not hold a graduated scale for criticism, sarcasm, political wit
or other qualitative descriptors of speech. The application for search warrant did not specify nor
give examples of any proscribed speech. The application was in direct opposition to U.S. v

Cassidy, 814 F.Supp.2d 574. Vague references to Twitter accounts, pseudonyms, various email
addresses that may be associated with protected speech does not create probable cause of a

crime. Cassidy established that 18 USC §2261A is unconstitutional in application to 'tweets'. It

is obvious from the conduct of the federal agents that the purpose of the visit was to harass and

intimidate a person. It was also obvious that the interrogation of the targeted person was to make
a mem rea determination. However, the interrogation only revealed existence of federal

deprivation of rights matters under color of state law by the alleged 'victim'. In view of this
revelation, there is cause to believe that the alleged criminal investigation is tainted with a

plethora of civil rights violations. It is of grave import that the public and the Connecticut State
Legislature be allowed to scrutinize this case as it smells of criminal conduct and judicial

retaliation against public criticism. A letter of similar discussion previously sent to the issuing
judge is attached for reference.

As this matter is simply governmental misconduct in view of the First Amendment, the
public is entitled to scrutinize the level of misconduct and criminal activity involved, hiding it
behind a seal of no purpose is just utter tyranny.

Paul A. Boyne, Pro Se

