Case 1:02-cv-00154

Document 55

Filed in TXSD on 06/12/2006

Page 1 of 8

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS
BROWNSVILLE DIVISION
LUIS ALEJANDRO GARZA,
Plaintiff,
v.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Defendant.

*
*
*
*
*
*
*

Civil Action No. B-02-154

DEFENDANT’S RESPONSE TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED MOTION TO
COMPEL DISCOVERY AND MOTION FOR IN CAMERA INSPECTION (No. 52)
TO THE HONORABLE JUDGE OF SAID COURT:
The United States of America, Defendant herein, submits the following response to
“Plaintiff’s First Amended Motion to Compel Discovery and Motion for In Camera
Inspection.”1
1.
In this section, Plaintiff seeks the turning over of documents and information
withheld by the Defendant in Plaintiff’s first set of production requests. As indicated to
Plaintiff’s counsel on previous occasions, the Defendant does not oppose producing the
documents listed at section 1 (a) through (d) of the Plaintiff’s motion to this Court for in
camera inspection. The records in question were submitted to this Court on January 5,
2004 (No. 31) for the purpose of allowing an in camera inspection of same. Should the
Court, upon review of these documents, determine that they should be released in part or
in their entirety, the Defendant will do so upon receipt of the Court’s written order to that

1

Plaintiff filed his first “Motion to Com pel” on Decem ber 16, 2003 (No. 28). That m otion closely
m irrors his “First Am ended Motion to Com pel Discovery and Motion for In Cam era Inspection” at issue in
this response. Accordingly, the Defendant incorporates by reference herein its response (No. 32) to
Plaintiff’s earlier m otion to com pel.

Case 1:02-cv-00154

Document 55

Filed in TXSD on 06/12/2006

Page 2 of 8

effect.
2.
In this section, Plaintiff seeks information pertaining to “similar incidents” defined as
“assaults by multiple inmates upon one or more inmates at or around the recreation yard
at the Three Rivers facility during the past ten years.” Defendant assumes that Plaintiff is
referring to interrogatory “5" and request for production number “7" –which are set forth
below along with the Defendant’s response to same:

[Interrogatory No.] 5 Identify all persons whom have made claims, including
lawsuits, against the government at the facility which have resulted from
similar incidents during the past ten years.
ANSWER:
Defendant disputes that this Court even has jurisdiction over this
action. As such, providing this information would be unduly
burdensome and costly, and the Defendant therefore objects to
providing this information. Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss, if
not filed by the time Plaintiff’s counsel receives this response,
will be filed within five days of his receipt of same.

[Request for Production No.] 7

Documentation of similar incidents.

RESPONSE:
The United States objects to the production of the materials sought in
this request. The United States will be filing a motion to dismiss this
case for failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted. The
defendant should not be required to go through the burden and expense
associated with gathering these materials until such time as the Court
may rule on its motion to dismiss.
Plaintiff seeks this information because he believes that it would lead to
“admissable [sic] evidence in that it could show that Defendant was aware of the risk
involved, identify employees reprimand for failing to follow the rules regarding inmates

Case 1:02-cv-00154

Document 55

Filed in TXSD on 06/12/2006

Page 3 of 8

gathering into large groups in the recreational yard and may disclose memoranda which
may address the best way to deal with the problem of violence by large groups in the
recreation yard.”
In re-urging his Motion to Compel, Plaintiff overlooks that the Fifth Circuit’s
decision remanding the case was limited. The Fifth Circuit concluded that “the Post
Order instruction that inmates ‘should not be allowed to gather in large groups’....” and
a guard’s decision as to what number of inmates constituted a large group fell within
the discretionary function exception of the Federal Tort Claims Act. The only issue that
the Fifth Circuit determined needed to be resolved was whether Bureau of Prisons
Guard Romero (Romero) “failed to patrol the yard.” (See, Judgment of the United
States Court of Appeals at pp 7-8-No. 48). Prisons, by their nature, are violent places.
The interrogatory as posed is very broad and overreaching, especially in light of the
Fifth Circuit’s conclusion that the only issue that need be resolved is whether Romero
“failed to patrol.”
3.
At section 3 of his motion, Plaintiff seeks copies of still photos that were
obtained for the purposes of criminal prosecution of those involved in the assault of the
plaintiff. These still photos were obtained from videotapes of the incident by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)–the agency assigned to investigate the incident.
When Plaintiff initially made his request for these photographs, the undersigned
contacted officials with the FBI and was advised that these still photographs could not
be located. FBI officials contacted the prosecutor that handled the criminal cases
related to this incident and the prosecutor indicated that he no longer had the

Case 1:02-cv-00154

Document 55

Filed in TXSD on 06/12/2006

Page 4 of 8

photographs. It is speculated that these photographs were destroyed as part of the
normal course of business that follows the completion/closing of a case file in the
United States Attorney’s Office.

This information was verbally communicated to

Plaintiff’s counsel and was reiterated by Defendant in its response to Plaintiff’s initial
Motion to Compel. Also at section 3 of his motion, Plaintiff asserts that the Defendant
should isolate the videotape from the camera(s) depicting the incident at issue. This
is the first time Plaintiff sought this type of video tape. The Defendant objects to this
request. As Plaintiff acknowledges, the Defendant did produce the video taken of the
incident; the video produced to the Plaintiff is the same video the Defendant currently
has in its possession. The original video is (and has been) available to Plaintiff’s
counsel, and if he desires to obtain still photos or hire someone to isolate the footage
he wants, he is free to do so at his own expense. Defendant should not be forced to
prepare his case for him and incur the costs of same.
Further, should the Defendant decide that it needs to obtain an “isolated video”
in preparation of its defense in this case, the Defendant objects to the discovery of this
“isolated video” on the ground that it would constitute attorney work product.
4.
In this section, Plaintiff takes issue with the Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s
Interrogatory Number 1. As Plaintiff indicates, he sought information regarding the
“standards in supervising inmates in the recreation yard, including the number of
guards, location of guards, the gathering of inmates into large groups, and the
procedures once an incident starts.”
In response to this request, Defendant cited Plaintiff to an exhibit that the

Case 1:02-cv-00154

Document 55

Filed in TXSD on 06/12/2006

Page 5 of 8

Defendant attached in response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents.
See, Defendant’s Exhibit “A” attached hereto. In addition, however, the Defendant
objected to responding to this interrogatory on the basis that it unduly sought out
information that could have a negative impact by imparting confidential security
information that would adversely affect prison operations and/or investigative
techniques.
Furthermore, as stated earlier, Plaintiff overlooks that the Fifth Circuit’s decision
remanding the case was limited. The Fifth Circuit concluded that “the Post Order
instruction that inmates ‘should not be allowed to gather in large groups’....” and a
guard’s decision as to what number of inmates constituted a large group fell within the
discretionary function exception of the Federal Tort Claims Act. The only issue that the
Fifth Circuit determined needed to be resolved was whether Bureau of Prisons Guard
Romero (Romero) “failed to patrol the yard.” (See, Judgment of the United States
Court of Appeals at pp 7-8-No. 48). Prisons, by their nature, are violent places. The
interrogatory as posed is very broad and overreaching, especially in light of the Fifth
Circuit’s conclusion that the only issue that need be resolved is whether Romero “failed
to patrol.”
5.
In this section, Plaintiff urges this Court to require that the Defendant answer
what it believes to be an argumentative and vague interrogatory that asks the
Defendant “how the incident could have been avoided or the injuries suffered by
Plaintiff could have been reduced.” See Plaintiff’s Exhibit 1, Interrogatory No. 3 (No.
54). Discovery is supposed to lead to the disclosure of facts-not speculation. Asking

Case 1:02-cv-00154

Document 55

Filed in TXSD on 06/12/2006

Page 6 of 8

the Defendant to speculate on such matters is argumentative and unreasonable.
6.
In this section, Plaintiff seeks information relating to “prior claims, including
lawsuits, against the government at the facility which have resulted in similar incidents
during the past ten years.” See Plaintiff’s Exhibit 1, Interrogatory No. 5 (No. 54). The
Defendant originally withheld this information on the ground that it had a motion
pending with the Court. Defendant is amenable to discuss with Plaintiff’s counsel
obtaining the information sought by the Plaintiff.
7.
In this section Plaintiff seeks a response to his interrogatory that asks “[i]f
Defendant believes that Plaintiff in any way caused his own injury, please explain how.”
See Plaintiff’s Exhibit 1, Interrogatory No. 6 (No. 54). Defendant, in response, declined
to respond in part because of the pending jurisdictional motion. Defendant also
declined to answer reserving its response until such time as its discovery of Plaintiff
was complete. Defendant’s discovery of Plaintiff is still not complete at this time.
8.
In this section, Plaintiff seeks a response to his interrogatory that asks the
Defendant to ”...state the legal and factual basis for the Defendant’s first affirmative
defense that Plaintiff’s injuries and damages were caused by a third party and therefore
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant should be reduced or barred.” See Plaintiff’s
Exhibit 1, Interrogatory No. 9 (No. 54). Defendant, in response, declined to respond
in part because of the pending jurisdictional motion. Defendant also declined to answer
reserving its response until such time as its discovery of Plaintiff was complete.

Case 1:02-cv-00154

Document 55

Filed in TXSD on 06/12/2006

Page 7 of 8

Defendant’s discovery of Plaintiff is still not complete at this time. Plaintiff, however,
was assaulted by persons who were not government employees; certainly those
persons should bear some of the responsibility for the injuries Plaintiff sustained.
9.
In this section, Plaintiff seeks a response to his interrogatory that asks the
Defendant to “...state the legal and factual bases for the Defendant’s second
affirmative defense that a superseding and/or intervening cause can legally bar
Plaintiff’s recovery against the United States.” See Plaintiff’s Exhibit 1, Interrogatory
No. 10 (No. 54). Defendant, in response, declined to respond in part because of the
pending jurisdictional motion.

Defendant also declined to answer reserving its

response until such time as its discovery of Plaintiff was complete. Defendant’s
discovery of Plaintiff is still not complete at this time.
10.
In this section, Plaintiff seeks documentation relating to his request for
information pertaining to similar incidents. See Plaintiff’s Exhibit 2, Production Request
No. 7 (No. 54). Defendant, in response, respectfully refers this Court to its argument
at paragraph 2, infra, relating to Plaintiff’s request regarding “similar incidents.
\
\
\
\
\
\

Case 1:02-cv-00154

Document 55

Filed in TXSD on 06/12/2006

Page 8 of 8

WHEREFORE, PREMISES CONSIDERED, the United States prays that this
Court deny the Plaintiff’s motion to compel.

Respectfully submitted,
DONALD J. DeGABRIELLE, JR.
United States Attorney
/s/ Nancy L. Masso
NANCY L. MASSO
Assistant U.S. Attorney
600 E. Harrison, #201
Brownsville, TX 78520
Tel: (956) 548-2554
Fax: (956) 548-2549
Texas State Bar No. 00800490
Federal I.D. No. 10263

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that a copy of the true and foregoing “Defendant’s Response to
Plaintiff’s First Amended Motion to Compel and Motion for In Camera Inspection” was
mailed on this the 12th day of June, 2006 via Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested
to Barry R. Benton, Attorney at Law, 284 Ebony Avenue, Brownsville, TX 78520.

/s/Nancy L. Masso
NANCY L. MASSO
Assistant United States Attorney

