IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA

MAUREEN TOFFOLONI,

as Administrator and Personal

Representative of the ESTATE

OF NANCY E. BENOIT, Civil Action File No.

1:08-CV-0421-TWT
Plaintiff

v.

LFP PUBLISHING GROUP, LLC.,
d/b/a Hustler Magazine, MARK
SAMANSKY, an individual,

and other distributors and sellers of
Hustler Magazine, as Defendants X,
Y, and Z,

Defendants.

Nm Ne Ne Ne ee ee Ne ee eet! Nie" Sater" See le eee! nee"

PLAINTIFE'S RESPONSE TO
DEFENDANT LFP PUBLISHING GROUP, LLC'S MOTION TO DISMISS

Comes now, Plaintiff, Maureen Toffoloni, as Administrator and Personal
Representative of the Estate of Nancy Benoit, by and through her undersigned
counsel, and hereby responds to Defendant, LFP Publishing Group, LLC's Motion
to Dismiss as follows.

I. Issue

 

The issue before the Court is whether Defendant has satisfied its burden of

showing, on the face of the pleadings, that Plaintiff is not entitled to any relief. For

Dockets.Justia.com
the reasons set forth below, the facts alleged in this verified complaint are sufficient
to afford Plaintiff the relief requested. Accordingly, Defendant's Motion to Dismiss
should be DENIED.
II. Statement of Facts

Plaintiff's Verified Complaint sets forth two claims for relief.' First, Plaintiff
requests this Court issue a Permanent Injunction preventing Hustler Magazine from
publishing or continuing to publish any and all nude or partially nude photographs
of decedent, Nancy Benoit (Complaint, Count 2). Second, Plaintiff seeks actual and
punitive damages arising from Defendants' violation of Nancy Benoit's right of
publicity. (Complaint, Count 3). Additionally, Plaintiff requests attorney fees and
expenses of litigation pursuant to O.C.G.A. 0x00A713-6-11. Jd.

The allegations to support Plaintiff's request for relief are summarized as
follows. The Defendants, acting as Hustler Magazine,' published and sold, nude and
partially nude photographs of decedent, Nancy Benoit, in the March 2008 issue of

Hustler Magazine. (Complaint, 0x00A7 8). The photographs Hustler published of Ms.

 

1 After a hearing, the Court denied the request for relief as to Count 1 of Plaintiff's Complaint.
Accordingly, only Count 2 and Count 3 are at issue,

* Hustler Magazine is a pornographic magazine, published frequently, upon information and belief, on a monthly basis.
The majority of the content of each monthly magazine is graphic and sexual photographs ofnude women. See Plaintiff"s
Verified Complaint, #7.

-2-
Benoit were created from a videotape made approximately 20 years ago by Defendant
Mark Samansky (Complaint, 0x00A7 9). At the time the videotape was made, Ms. Benoit
and her then husband James Daus were aware that she was being videotaped
(Complaint, J 11). However, Ms. Benoit did not consent or give permission for
Defendant Samansky to use the videotape in any way (Complaint, {| 11). There is no
evidence before the Court that Nancy Benoit ever executed a release or other
document concerning the use of her image.

Immediately thereafter, Ms. Benoit decided she did not want to have nude or
partially nude photographs of herself published by Mr. Samansky, or anyone else
(Complaint, 4 12, 0x00A7 14). She insisted Defendant Samansky destroy all photographs
of her at that time (Complaint, 7 13). Defendant Samansky told Ms. Benoit and her
husband that he had destroyed all nude or partially nude photographs of Ms. Benoit,
as well as the videotape (Complaint, 0x00A7 13).

Until her murder in June 2007, Ms. Benoit exploited her image for commercial
purposes during her career as a model, professional woman wrestler and public figure
(Complaint, 0x00A7 15). Presently, Plaintiff, as Administrator of Ms. Benoit's Estate, has
the legal right to control the use of Ms. Benoit's image for commercial and/or

financial gain (Complaint, { 15).
The present litigation developed because Defendant Samansky did not destroy
the videotape of Ms. Benoit (Complaint, 0x00A7 16). Instead, Defendant Samansky kept
the videotape, created still photographs from the videotape and apparently sold' some
or all of the photographs and/or still images to Hustler for publication (Complaint, {
16). This was done without the knowledge or consent of Ms. Benoit or her estate
(Complaint, 17).

Plaintiff requested Hustler refrain from publishing the nude and partially nude
photographs of Ms. Benoit because publication of the photographs would be a
violation of Nancy Benoit's right of publicity (Complaint, 0x00A7 18). Hustler denied
Plaintiff' s request (Complaint, J 19). Accordingly, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against
Defendant in the Superior Court of Fayette County. Thereafter, Defendant removed
the case to this Court on the basis of diversity of citizenship. After a hearing, the
Court denied the request for relief as to Count 1 of Plaintiff's Complaint.

On April 8, 2008, Defendant filed a Motion to Dismiss this action pursuant to
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6), for failure to state a claim. In response,

Plaintiff now respectfully requests this Court deny Defendant's motion.

 

3 Plaintiff does not know the amount of money that changed hands between Hustler Magazine and Mark Samansky.
Hustler admits Defendant Samansky "conveyed" to it the right to publish the nude and partially nude photographs of
Ms. Benoit in its March 2008 issue (Defendant's Brief in Support of Motion to Dismiss, p. 3, J 1.)

-4.
Ill. Legal Standard

Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6) permits a district court to dismiss a
complaint if it fails to state a claim upon which relief can be granted. F.R.C.P.
12(b)(6). The question presented to the court on a motion to dismiss is whether it
appears beyond doubt that the plaintiff cannot prove any set of facts consistent with
the allegations that will entitle the plaintiff to relief. Semerenko v. Cendant Corp..
223 F.3d 165, 173 (emphasis added).

In evaluating the pleadings, the Court must accept all of the plaintiffs
allegations as true and construe them in the light most favorable to plaintiff's case.
Usher v. Citv of Los Angeles, 828 F.2d 556, 561 (9th Cir.1987). Additionally, the
Court must give the plaintiff the benefit of every inference that reasonably may be
drawn. Tvler v. Cisneros, 136 F.3d 603, 607 (9th Cir. 1998); Epstein v. Wash. Energy
Co., 83 F.3d 1136, 1140 (9th Cir. 1996). Moreover, even ifthe pleadings suggest that
a chance of recovery is remote, the Court must allow the plaintiff to develop their
case at this stage of the proceedings. Semerenko, supra.

IV. The Right of Publicity
The right of publicity was first recognized in Georgia by the Court of Appeals

in Cabaniss v. Hipsley, 114 Ga. App. 367 (1966) wherein Mrs. Hipsley brought an

~5-
action to recover damages for the publication of her photograph which violated her
right of privacy. Ms. Hipsley alleged defendants obtained a copy of her photograph
in some unknown manner and, without her knowledge or consent, published it in an
advertisement carried in "Gay Atlanta" wherein the public was invited to Atlanta's
Playboy Club,
In evaluating the merits of Ms. Hipsley's claims, the Cabaniss Court adopted
Dean William L. Prosser's right of privacy analysis, as published in 48 Calif.L.Rev.
383 (1960). After distinguishing commercial appropriation cases from the other
three so called `privacy torts,' the Cabaniss Court concluded: "We think that, in
addition to and independent of that right of privacy a man has a right in the
publicity value of his photograph, i.e., the right to grant the exclusive privilege of
publishing his picture...this right might be called a `right of publicity.' Cabaniss at
381. (Quoting the Second Circuit in Haelan Laboratories, Inc. v. Topps Chewing
Gum, Inc., 202 F.2d 866 (2d Cir.)).
Similarly, in McQueen v. Wilson, 117 Ga. App. 488 (1968), reversed on other
grounds, the Georgia Court of Appeals upheld the right of an actress, Butterfly
McQueen, to recover for the unauthorized use of her photograph, announcing: "...If

has been recognized that the appropriation of another's identity, picture, papers,

~6 =
name or signature without consent and for financial gain might be a tort for which
an action would lie..." Id. at 491. Noting the similarities between the McQueen case

and the Cabaniss case, Judge Deen, writing for the majority, stated:

"Both cases deal with a performer whose livelihood
depends to some extent on the public image created by her
efforts and talent, i.e., [In Cabaniss] an exotic dancer; [in
MeQueenj, an actress in a well known movie. Both
plaintiffs have packaged their personality within the area
of performance as a commodity for sale to the public, and
it can no more be tolerated that another take this
commodity, that was developed and marketed by the
plaintiff for private gain, than it be tolerated that her dress
or automobile be misappropriated in like manner."

Id. at 492.

Today, Georgia's leading case on the right of publicity is Martin Luther King.
Jr.. Center for Social Change, Inc. y. American Heritage Products, Inc., 250) Ga. 135
(1982) wherein the Eleventh Circuit sought clarification as to the existence and scope
of the right of publicity in Georgia. Primarily, our Supreme Court determined:
"Georgia does recognize the right of publicity...it is the right to exclusive use of an
individual's name, image and likeness." Id. at 137. When such use is appropriated,
without the owner's consent and for financial gain or benefit of the appropriator,

regardless of whether the victim is a private citizen, an entertainer, or a public figure,
this is a tort for which the measure of damages is the value of the appropriation to the
user. Jd. 137-143.

Additionally, after recognizing that the right of publicity is assignable and
transferable, in whole or in part, during the lifetime of its owner, the MLK, Jr. Court
concluded the right of publicity is also survivable: "We hold that the right of
publicity survives the death of its owner and is inheritable and devisable." Id. at 145.
Moreover, the court held: "...even where an owner chooses not to commercially

exploit' his or her name or likeness during life, their right of publicity survives in

death." Id. at 148.
Vv. Argument
Accordingly, under current Georgia law, to establish a prima facie case for a
violation to an owner's right of publicity, there must be: (1) the use of the owner's
name, likeness, or image; (2) for the commercial use or benefit of the appropriator;

(3) without the owner's consent.

 

4` The MALK, Jr. Court defined the term `exploitation' to mean: "...commercial use by the celebrity other than the activity
which made him or her famous." Jd. at 146.

-8-
A. Use of Ms. Benoit's Image

First, Plaintiff alleges Hustler Magazine used Ms. Benoit's image by publishing
nude and partially nude photographs of Ms. Benoit in the March 2008 issue of
Hustler Magazine. Photocopies of these photographs were filed under seal with the
original Complaint, and copies were introduced into evidence at the hearing on
Plaintiff's Motion for a Temporary Restraining Order. This matter is undisputed.
(Hearing Transcript, p. 20). Accordingly, because Hustler Magazine "used Ms.
Benoit's image, " the Court should find the first element of Plaintiff' s prima facie case
has been established.

B.  Forthe Commercial Benefit of Defendants

Second, it is obvious that Hustler used Ms. Benoit's image for it's own
commercial benefit. This element is the crux of this case. In its motion, Defendant
raises two arguments: the newsworthy exception and the incidental use doctrine.

`

As to the newsworthy argument, Defendant claims: "...in this case we do not
have a commercial purpose...the photographs of Ms. Benoit were published for
purposes of illustrating a news story of general public interest concerning the life

and death of Nancy Benoit" (Defendant's Brief, p. 13,92). Defendant argues the use

of Ms. Benoit's image was done in association with a `news' article and since `news'

-9.
is protected by the First Amendment, it cannot constitute commercial appropriation.
Maples v. National Enguirer, 763 F. Supp. 1137 (N.D. Ga. 1990); Waters _v.
Fleetwood, 212 Ga. 161 (1956).

However, even conceding that the subject matter of the article, namely the life
and death of Ms. Benoit, is a legitimate matter of public interest and concern,
Defendant fails to distinguish between "...a publication which is generally entitled
to first amendment protection and an item within such publication that constitutes
commercial appropriation, and is thereby not entitled to first amendment
protection." United Titan Sports, Inc. v. Comics World Corp., 870 F.2d 85 (1989).

In this case, the Court (and a jury) could easily find that the nude and partially
nude photographs of Ms. Benoit, taken 20 years ago, are not newsworthy and do not
constitute a legitimate matter of public interest or concern. Until her sensational
murder, Ms. Benoit was `newsworthy' because of her career as a model, professional
woman wrestler and public figure. Further, at the time Hustler published the nude
photographs, the tragic circumstances surrounding Ms. Benoit and her son's deaths
were the matter of public interest and concern.

In conjunction with this argument, Defendant raises the incidental use doctrine,

contending: "...the mere fact that Hustler is engaged in the business of publication,

-1Q-
