Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 1 of 47 PageID #: 8342

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA
AT CLARKSBURG
THE KAY COMPANY, LLC,
et al.,
Plaintiffs,
v.

CIVIL ACTION NO. 1:13-cv-151
(Honorable John Preston Bailey)

EQT PRODUCTION COMPANY, et al.,
Defendants.

DEFENDANTS’ MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION
TO PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR CLASS CERTIFICATION
Come EQT Production Company (“EQT Production”), EQT Corporation, EQT Energy,
LLC (“EQT Energy”), EQT Investments Holdings, LLC (“EQT Investments”), EQT Gathering,
LLC (“EQT Gathering”), and EQT Midstream Partners, LP (“EQT Midstream”) (collectively
referred to as “Defendants”), and for their Memorandum in Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Class Certification state as follows:
INTRODUCTION
As Defendants previously established in their response to Plaintiffs’ initial class
certification motion, Plaintiffs seek class certification based upon claims and facts virtually
identical to those in Adkins v. EQT Production Company, 1 a gas royalty deduction case in which
the Fourth Circuit found that class certification was inappropriate. In Adair, the Court described
the inherent impediment to certifying a class in a gas royalty deduction case, stating:

1

Adkins was one of five cases decided in Adair v. EQT Production, 764 F.3d 347 (4th Cir.
2014), in which orders certifying each of five classes were reversed.

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 2 of 47 PageID #: 8343

Although the district court recognized the problem of lease
language variation, it did not see it as a barrier to class certification
in any of these cases. In our view, however, these variable terms
will make it difficult, if not impossible, for a court to assess the
validity of the defendants’ royalty payment practices on a
classwide basis.
Adair, supra, at pp. 367-368 (emphasis added). The Fourth Circuit’s opinion in Adair provides a
roadmap for the Court in evaluating the Plaintiffs’ Motion for Class Certification in this action.
As in their initial class certification motion, Plaintiffs largely ignore Adkins and do not
demonstrate that class certification is appropriate in this case. The only difference between this
case and Adkins is that, here, more variation exists between class members. In the instant action,
at issue are:
(1) more leases, amendments, ratifications, and settlements governing
royalties 2;
(2) more wells with differing production types and histories;
(3) more lease-specific payment histories;
(4) more sales points, causing more indices to be applied;
(5) more royalty owners, creating more heirship issues;
(6) more types of development utilized;
(7) more owner-specific communications and courses of dealings; and
(8) more plan rates and more variations in plan rates applied, depending
on the location of the wells.
These circumstances clearly compel the conclusion the Fourth Circuit reached–that gas
royalty deduction cases require individual analysis. In the face of the Fourth Circuit’s clearly

2

For instance, the Plaintiffs on remand in Adkins assert that EQT Production has approximately
3,700 Virginia leases. See Affidavit of Alyce Hoge, Adkins v. EQT Production Company, U.S.
Dist. Ct., W.D. Va., Case 1:10-cv-00037 JPJ-PMS, DE 567-19. In Virginia, EQT has only three
operational districts with most production being sold at the same index price (East Tennessee).
2

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 3 of 47 PageID #: 8344

expressed reservations regarding class actions of this type, and the fact that the class here would
be much larger, Plaintiffs have failed to explain why this case should be treated differently than
Adkins. As demonstrated below, Plaintiffs’ Motion must be denied.
STATEMENT OF FACTS
EQT Production Company (“EQT Production”) explores for and produces natural gas in
six states, including West Virginia. Affidavit of John Bergonzi attached as Exhibit 1.

It sells

natural gas it produces to EQT Energy, LLC (“EQT Energy”). Id. EQT Energy purchases
natural gas from many producers, including EQT Production, and then sells that gas at various
sales points to numerous purchasers. Id. EQT Gathering, LLC (“EQT Gathering”) transports
natural gas for a fee, usually from the point it is produced to a processing facility or interstate
pipeline. Its customers include EQT Energy and many other unaffiliated customers. Id. EQT
Corporation, EQT Investments Holding, LLC, and EQT Midstream Partners, LP, are not directly
involved in the production, gathering, or marketing of any West Virginia natural gas. Id.
A.

Historical Sales and Royalty Calculation

In February 2000, Equitable Production Company (“EPC”), EQT Production’s
predecessor, acquired all of the West Virginia, Virginia, and Kentucky oil and gas interests of
Statoil Energy, Inc., and one of its subsidiaries (“Statoil”). Id. At the time EPC acquired Statoil,
EPC did not own or operate any gas wells in West Virginia. Id. Almost all of the West Virginia
wells currently operated by EQT Production are the result of the Statoil acquisition or new well
drilling after February 2000. Id. Following the Statoil transaction, revenue distributions
continued on the accounting system acquired from Statoil. Id. In January 2002, that system was

3

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 4 of 47 PageID #: 8345

replaced by Enertia, an oil and gas accounting system still utilized by EQT Production, with
information from the Statoil accounting system downloaded to the new Enertia system. Id. 3
Until 2005, Equitable Energy, LLC (now EQT Energy) purchased EQT Production’s gas
at the interstate connection. Id. On leases where royalty was to be paid “at the well” and did not
prohibit the deduction of downstream costs, EQT Production deducted the royalty owners’ share
of downstream costs from the sales price received, as shown on its royalty statements, a sample
of which is attached as Exhibit 2. This method of calculating the wellhead price by deducting
post-production costs from the downstream sales price is generally referred to as the “work back
method” and had long been used in West Virginia and other states to set a wellhead price. Id.
B.

Current Sales and Royalty Calculation

Before 2005, EQT Production’s predecessor, Equitable Production Company, operated
two businesses: production and gathering. Bergonzi Aff., Exh. 1. On January 1, 2005, EQT
Production reorganized to separate out its “midstream” business to, among other things, better
track and analyze the cost structure of its production, gathering, and marketing businesses to
ensure that each business was generating a fair rate of return. Id. This reorganization resulted in
the formation of EQT Gathering, LLC, and EQT Gathering Equity, LLC, the entities responsible
for gathering, compressing, and transporting natural gas. As part of the reorganization, EQT
Production entered into gas purchase contracts with EQT Energy, LLC (formerly Equitable
Energy). The contracts’ pricing provisions utilized the “work back method” 4 to calculate the

3

EPC made no changes to Statoil’s royalty payment practices.
At the time EQT Production incorporated the work back method into its sales contract, the
Fourth Circuit had already recognized the method as a valid means of determining the wellhead
price. See Imperial Colliery Co. v. Oxy USA, Inc., 912 F.2d 696, 701 (4th Cir. 1990),
(acknowledging “that there was no available wellhead price does not necessarily preclude
computation of the gas’ wellhead price. For example, … such a computation might simply be
made by taking Equitable’s purchase price and deducting compression and gathering expenses.”)
4
4

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 5 of 47 PageID #: 8346

wellhead value of the gas sold. The contracts provided for a sales price based on the following
objective formula:
[The] Applicable First of the Month Index Price applicable to the
interstate pipeline(s) into which the Gas is delivered, less
prevailing gathering related charges and retainage applicable to
such point(s), less any other agreed applicable fees or charges.
Id. EQT Energy, in turn, entered into gathering contracts with the newly-created gathering
companies, allowing EQT Energy to transport gas purchased from EQT Production to a point of
sale at the interstate connection in exchange for the payment of a cost-of-service rate charged by
the midstream companies. Id. Under this new framework, EQT Energy began buying gas from
EQT Production at the wellhead and paying EQT Production based on the price and volumes it
sold the gas for at the interstate pipeline connection(s). Id. The gas purchase contract was
renegotiated in 2012, but the pricing formula remains the same. Id.
EQT Gathering transports EQT Energy’s gas through the Weston, Brenton, Madison,
Weston (Marcellus), KA-8, Saturn, WG-100, Pandora, and H-156 gathering systems, pursuant to
separate, negotiated gathering agreements for each system. Id. Each year, EQT Gathering
calculates “plan rates” to be charged for its gathering services on the Weston, Brenton, Madison,
Weston (Marcellus), KA-8 systems. 5 Bergonzi Aff., Exh. 1. These annual rates are based on
EQT Gathering’s business plan, which projects what its operational costs will be for the next
year. Id. The rate varies by geographic area and type of development, depending on what costs
are allocated to each area and the nature of gas being transported. Id. This rate charged to EQT
5

Plaintiffs’ repeated assertion that only three (3) plan rates exist is incorrect. Justin Friend
testified that there are eight primary districts in West Virginia, plus additional sub-districts.
Deposition of Justin Friend, Exh. 3, p. 15. Separate gathering agreements are negotiated for
Weston, Brenton, Madison, Weston (Marcellus), KA-8, Saturn, WG-100, Pandora, and H-156
gathering systems, and the rate varies by geographic area and the type of development. In fact,
one of Plaintiffs’ witnesses testified that there are at least eight (8) different rates. Deposition of
Daniel Reineke, Exh. 4, pp. 79-80; 118.
5

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 6 of 47 PageID #: 8347

Energy is a fully-burdened rate (meaning it includes all of the costs that typically go into
gathering the gas), which EQT Energy applies to the pricing formula set forth in the gas purchase
contracts with EQT Production. Id. While EQT Production bears the full burden of this plan rate
in its payment from EQT Energy, EQT Production determines, with assistance from EQT
Gathering, how much of that rate reflects charges for EQT Gathering’s rate of return,
depreciation, and income taxes. EQT Production then adds that amount back in to the sales price
before it pays royalty owners. Id. 6
C.

Plaintiffs’ Claims and Leases

The Kay Company, LLC; H. Dotson Cather, Trustee of Diana Goff Cather Trusts; and
James E. Hamric III (“the named Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against the Defendants on behalf
of all others similarly situated alleging breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duties (associated
with leases), and fraudulent misrepresentation. See Amended Complaint ECF No. 29, pp. 15-16.
All three of these claims essentially allege the same thing: that EQT Production took improper
deductions from royalty payments and that the Plaintiffs were not paid all of the revenues to
which they claim entitlement. Id. With regard to deductions, they claim that for some leases,
deductions cannot be taken, and, for others, the deductions were excessive. 7 With regard to

6

Thus, EQT Production does not pay royalties on an amount less than it receives. Royalty
owners receive more than 1/8th of the price paid to EQT Production because income taxes,
depreciation, and return on investment are added back into the sales price before calculating the
royalty.
7

Plaintiffs claim that deductions are excessive because EQT Gathering’s gathering rate is not
“actual and reasonable” and assert that Tawney v. CNR, 219 W.Va. 266, 633 S.E.2d 22 (2006)
“made clear that any cost deductions be incurred by the lessee.” (ECF No. 182, p. 5). Plaintiffs
consistently misstate the impact of that decision and its application to this case. The relevant
inquiry is not whether EQT Gathering’s gathering rate is “actual and reasonable,” but whether
any deductions taken were based on costs actually and reasonably incurred by EQT
Production.
6

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 7 of 47 PageID #: 8348

revenues, they claim they are entitled to payment for all volumes of gas produced at the wellhead
rather than the volumes upon which EQT Production (and EQT Energy) is paid, and that they are
entitled to a portion of revenue received from the sale of natural gas liquids. Id.

8

The named Plaintiffs have separately negotiated leases with EQT Production. Their
leases all have material variations (i.e., they are not form leases). See Affidavit of Bryant Wayne
Bowman attached as Exhibit 5; Reineke Depo, Exh. 4, pp. 87-88.

For instance, the Kay

Company’s lease appears to contain a negotiated royalty clause:
Lessee agrees to pay Lessor for each gas well from the time and
while the gas is marketed, at the rate of one-eighth (1/8) of the
current wholesale market value at the well of the gas, gasoline and
other products thereof, based on the usual price paid therefor in the
general locality of said leased premises, payable each three
months, all pursuant to subsection (a) of this article, and
determined at the point or points provided in subsection (b) of this
article. In no event shall the current wholesale market value of
such gas at the well for the purposes hereof be less than 18 cents
per mcf.
Bowman Aff, Exh. 5. The Dianna Goff Cather Trust is also party to a clearly negotiated lease,
rather than a form lease, which has a complicated royalty provision initially providing:
Second – to pay as royalty for all gas produced and marketed from
each well when and as the gas is marketed, one-eighth (1/8) of the
wholesale market value thereof at the well based on the usual price
paid therefor in the general locality of the leased premises, payable
on or before the 25th day of the month following that in which the
gas was delivered into the marketing pipeline.
This lease then has an additional royalty provision outlining the sharing of “pumping” costs and
providing the lessor with the option to elect an additional royalty based on one of two options:

8

Throughout their memorandum, the named Plaintiffs insinuate that EQT has been obstructive in
providing discovery. That is simply not true. EQT has produced tens of thousands of documents
(including all of its West Virginia lease files in March, 2015) and has supplied witnesses to be
deposed by Plaintiffs on twelve occasions.
7

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 8 of 47 PageID #: 8349

“to deliver to the credit of the Lessors as additional royalty the
equal one thirty-second (1/32) part of the working interest oil, less
the equal one thirty-second (1/32) part of the lifting and pumping
costs; and to pay as an additional royalty for all gas produced and
marketed from said first well … the equal one thirty-second (1/32)
part of the wholesale market value of the working interest gas, less
the equal one thirty-second (1/32) part of the pumping costs, if
any; and Lessee further covenants and agrees that from the second
well on the leased premises which yields royalty oil or produces
gas in marketable quantities, to deliver to the credit of the Lessors
as an additional royalty the equal one thirty-second (1/32) part of
the working interest oil less the equal one thirty-second (1/32) part
of the lifting and pumping costs; and to pay as additional royalty
for all gas produced and marketed from said second well when as
the gas is marketed, the equal one thirty-second (1/32) part of the
pumping costs, if any.”
The lease of named Plaintiff James E. Hamric, III, differs greatly from the two unique leases of
the other named Plaintiffs. The royalty clause of that lease provides:
And to pay Lessor for gas produced from any oil well and used by
Lessee for the manufacture of gasoline or any other product as
royalty one-eighth (1/8) of the market value of such gas at the
mouth of the well, if such gas is sold by the Lessee, then as royalty
one-eighth (1/8) of the proceeds of the sale thereof at the mouth
of the well.
Id.
Further, natural gas produced from the Hamric lease is sold to Mountaineer Gas, a local
distribution company, at or near the well located on the lease. Gilmore Affidavit, attached as
Exhibit 6. No deductions have been taken in calculating Hamric’s royalty since 2007. Affidavit
of Michael Barbour attached as Exhibit 7.
None of the named Plaintiffs have flat rate leases that have been converted pursuant to
W. Va. Code § 22-6-8. Id.

8

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 9 of 47 PageID #: 8350

D.

EQT Production’s West Virginia Leases

EQT Production has approximately 25,000 individual West Virginia lease documents.
See Affidavit of Alma Tolman attached as Exhibit 8; Deposition of Alma Tolman, Exh. 9,
pp.40-41. 9 There are leases in West Virginia that allow deductions of certain types in calculating
royalty but prohibit deduction of other expenses. Barbour Affidavit, Exhibit 7; Deposition of
Michael Barbour, Exh. 13, p.57.
In addition to examining the named Plaintiffs’ royalty provisions, Wayne Bowman, a
landman with nearly 20 years of experience, also reviewed a sampling of more than 500 of EQT
Production’s West Virginia leases and determined that significant variations exist in their royalty
provisions, including at least 61 leases or amendments with royalty clauses unique from the
named Plaintiffs’ leases and the other leases in the sampling. For example, some sampled leases
have royalty provisions explicitly authorizing deductions, and the types of allowed deductions
vary widely among leases.

Bowman Affidavit, Exh. 5. Some calculate royalty based on

measured production and variable price; others calculate royalty based upon a flat rate per well
or a fixed or minimum price. Id. The royalty clauses below are a few of the 61 distinct royalty
clauses identified in the sampling. They illustrate the extreme variation found in EQT
Production’s West Virginia leases:
•

“a royalty equal to one-eighth (1/8th) of the Amount Realized (as defined
below) by Lessee from the first sale of such gas. The Lessor will be paid a
royalty based on the volumes of oil and gas sold by Lessee and shall not
be entitled to royalty payments for any volumes not sold, regardless if
produced or measured at any point other than the point of sale.”

9

Named Plaintiffs made no effort to identify the number of West Virginia leases prior to
initiating this action. See Depo. of James Hamric, Exh. 10, p. 13; Depo of Christopher Thomas,
Exh. 11, p. 9; Depo H. Dotson Cather, Exh.12, p. 13.
9

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 10 of 47 PageID #: 8351

•

“one-eighth (1/8th) of the value at the well of the gas from each and every
gas well drilled on said premises, the product from which is marketed and
used off the premises, said gas to be measured at a meter set on the farm,
and to pay monthly Lessors’ proportionate share of the one-eighth (1/8th)
of the net value at the factory of the gasoline and other gasoline products
manufactured from casinghead gas.”

•

“One and one-half (1 1/2¢) per thousand cubic feet for all gas produced
while the same is marketed or used off said premises”

•

“the sum of two and one half cents (2 1/2¢) for each thousand cubic feet
(MCF) of gas produced and marketed from the leased premises, and, in
addition thereto, one-eighth (1/8) of the selling price thereof, in excess of
twenty (20¢) per thousand cubic feet (MCF), received by Lessee for the
gas sold by it at a price higher than twenty cents (20¢) per thousand cubic
feet (MCF).”

•

“one-eighth (1/8) of the sale price by Lessee at the well of all gas
produced hereunder, as shown to have been delivered at the well or wells
in each month by meter measurement into marketing pipelines; but such
payment to Lessor shall be not less than three and one-eighth cents (31/8¢) for each one thousand cubic feet (1 MCF) of gas produced and sold
in any month.”

•

“On gas, including casinghead gas, methane or other gaseous substances,
produced from said lands and sold on or off the premises, or used off the
premises, the value of 1/8th of the gas so sold or used; where gas from said
lands is processed in a plant for the purpose of extracting products
therefrom, Lessor shall receive as royalty 1/8th of the value at the plant of
the products so extracted and 1/8th of the value of the residue gas
remaining after extraction of said products…”

•

“On gas, including casinghead gas and all other gaseous or vaporous
substances, produced from said land and sold or used of the leased
premises or in the manufacture of gasoline or in the extraction of sulphur
or any other product, the market value at the wells of one eighth (1/8) of
the gas so sold or used, such market value at the wells in no event to
exceed the net proceeds received by Lessee calculated or allocated back to
the wells from which produced, making allowance and deduction for a fair
and reasonable charge for gathering, compressing, and making
merchantable such gas…”

•

“should gas be produced and used off the premises the Lessors shall be
paid at the rate of two hundred dollars annually so long as the gas is so
used and sold.”
10

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 11 of 47 PageID #: 8352

•

“for each and every well drilled upon said land, which produces Natural
Gas only, in a quantity sufficient for the Lessee to convey to market, a
money royalty computed at the rate of Three Hundred and No/100
($300.00) Dollars per annum payable quarterly in advance…”

Bowman Affidavit, Exh. 5.
Additionally, Plaintiffs have created “lists” of leases based on differing royalty
provisions. See Requests for Admission, attached as Exhibit 14.

In these lists, Plaintiffs

acknowledge that there are at least 96 different royalty provisions in the sampling of West
Virginia leases they reviewed. See id.
E.

Difficulty in Identifying West Virginia Lessors

EQT Production and the named Plaintiffs were parties to earlier royalty litigation. See
The Kay Company v. Equitable Production, et al., U.S. Dist. Ct., S.D. W. Va., Civil Action No.
2:06-0612) (hereinafter “Kay Company”). When administering the 2008 Kay Company litigation
settlement, it was difficult to determine who was entitled to payment because many of the
original lessors’ heirs were unknown. Tolman Affidavit, Exh. 8. Generally speaking, it is
challenging to locate individuals who are entitled to royalty payments under an oil and gas lease.
This is illustrated by the fact that there are approximately 3,500 West Virginia lessors whose
interests are being held in suspense. Id. This difficulty is further illustrated by the inability of the
named Plaintiffs to identify other interest holders in their own leases. See Thomas Depo., Exh.
11, p. 9; Cather Depo., Exh. 12, p. 27.
F.

Individual Lessor Communications with EQT Production

EQT Production maintains a royalty owner relations line so that royalty owners may call
it to raise any questions or concerns regarding their royalty payments. Tolman Affidavit, Exh. 8.
A call log documents that EQT’s Land Administration Department received over 130 calls from
11

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 12 of 47 PageID #: 8353

lessors with questions about deductions from their royalty payments between March 29, 2010
and March 11, 2015.

Id. The lessors who called EQT Production did not initiate legal

proceedings. Id. None of the named Plaintiffs called EQT Production’s royalty owner’s relations
line to raise questions or concerns over their royalty payments. Id.
As part of the settlement of the earlier class action, some West Virginia lessors signed
lease modifications and ratifications in which they acknowledged that their royalties were
properly calculated through the date of execution and providing for a future royalty rate based
upon a percentage of blended price indices, while other West Virginia lessors did not. Id. Even
more lessors signed separately negotiated and unique lease modifications outside of the class
action claims administration process, acknowledging the propriety of EQT’s royalty payment
practices. None of the named Plaintiffs executed such a document. Id.
G.

Gas Content Variance

Whether natural gas liquids are sold from a particular well is dependent on the BTU
(British Thermal Unit) or heat content of the natural gas produced. The heat content differs
depending on where the gas is produced. Affidavit of Justin Friend, attached as Exhibit 15.
Whether West Virginia-produced gas is processed also depends on the geographic location of the
well where it is produced. Friend Depo., Exh. 3, p. 20. Defendants analyzed the flow of gas
from the Plaintiffs’ wells and determined that natural gas liquids are not produced from any of
the named Plaintiffs’ leases. Friend Depo., Exh. 3, pp. 94-99. The named Plaintiffs made no
effort to determine if natural gas liquids are produced or sold from their leases. See Hamric
Depo., Exh.10, p. 13; Thomas Depo., Exh.11, p. 9; Cather Depo., Exh.12, p. 13. In fact, one of
their proffered expert witnesses admitted that he is unable to conclude that natural gas liquids are

12

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 13 of 47 PageID #: 8354

produced or sold from any of the named Plaintiffs’ leases and that he has not calculated any
damage amount for such a claim. Reineke Depo., Exh. 4, pp. 31-33; 121-124. 10
H.

Plaintiffs’ Class Certification Request

Plaintiffs’ seek to certify the following class:
All EQT natural gas lessors that received or were due to be paid royalties from
defendants and EQT’s production or sale of natural gas which was produced
within the boundaries of the State of West Virginia from their natural gas or
mineral estates during the period beginning after December 8, 2008, and
extending to the present (during any time within their leasehold period.)
Mot. for Class Cert., ECF No. 300, p. 2.

Additionally, Plaintiffs propose the following

subclasses:
(a) All EQT natural gas lessors with flat rate leases converted by operation
of W. Va. Code, § 22-6-8 and that received or were due to be paid royalties from
defendants and EQT’s production or sale of natural gas which was produced
within the boundaries of the State of West Virginia from their estates during the
period beginning after December 8, 2008, and extending to the present (during
any time within their leasehold period.)
(b) All EQT natural gas lessors that received or were due to be paid
royalties from defendants and EQT’s production or sale of natural gas which was
produced within the boundaries of the State of West Virginia from their estates
during the period beginning after December 8, 2008, and extending to the present
(during any time within their leasehold period,) except for those lessors holding
flat rate leases converted according to W. Va. Code, § 22-6-8.
Id.

11

STANDARD OF LAW FOR CLASS CERTIFICATION
A class action lawsuit is “‘an exception to the usual rule that litigation is conducted by
and on behalf of the individual named parties only.’” Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Dukes, 131 S. Ct.
2541, 2550 (2011) (quoting Califano v. Yamasaki, 99 S. Ct. 2545 (1979)). “To come within the

10

Defendants have contemporaneously filed a Motion to Exclude the testimony of Plaintiffs’
expert witnesses, Daniel Reineke and Daniel Selby.
11
The Plaintiffs’ proposed class definitions are typical of the shotgun approach they have taken
to class certification. Their definitions of the class and subclasses include anyone receiving or
due royalty, and are not even limited to royalty owners alleged to have been paid improperly.
13

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 14 of 47 PageID #: 8355

exception, a party seeking to maintain a class action ‘must affirmatively demonstrate his
compliance’ with Rule 23.” Comcast Corp. v. Behrend, 133 S. Ct. 1426, 1432 (2013).
The Fourth Circuit has found that “Rule 23 contains an implicit threshold requirement
that the members of a proposed class be ‘readily identifiable,’ meaning, “a class cannot be
certified unless a court can readily identify the class members in reference to objective criteria.”
EQT Prod. Co. v. Adair, 764 F.3d 347, 358 (4th Cir. 2014) (internal citations omitted). If this
threshold requirement is met, plaintiffs must demonstrate that the class complies with Federal
Rule of Civil Procedure 23. Pursuant to Rule 23, plaintiffs must demonstrate that:
(1) the class is so numerous that joinder of all members is impracticable;
(2) there are questions of law or fact common to the class;
(3) the claims or defenses of the representative parties are typical of the claims
or defenses of the class; and
(4) the representative parties will fairly and adequately protect the interests of
the class.
Fed. R. Civ. 23(a). The purpose of these requirements is to limit class claims to those of the
named representatives of the class. Wal-Mart, 131 S. Ct. at 2550.
In addition to satisfying Rule 23(a)’s requirements, pursuant to Rule 23(b)(3), plaintiffs
must demonstrate:
(3) …that the questions of law or fact common to class members predominate
over any questions affecting only individual members, and that a class action
is superior to other available methods for fairly and efficiently adjudicating
the controversy. The matters pertinent to these findings include:
(A)
the class members’ interests in individually controlling the
prosecution or defense of separate actions;
(B)
the extent and nature of any litigation concerning the controversy
already begun by or against class members;

14

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 15 of 47 PageID #: 8356

(C) the desirability or undesirability of concentrating the litigation of the
claims in the particular forum; and
(D) the likely difficulties in managing a class action.
Fed. R. Civ. 23(b)(3). The Fourth Circuit has explained that class certification under Rule
23(b)(3) requires a plaintiff to: (1) satisfy all Rule 23(a) requirements; (2) demonstrate that
common questions of law or fact predominate over any questions affecting only individual class
members; and (3) show that proceeding as a class is superior to other available methods of
litigation. Adair, 764 F.3d at 357.
Further, plaintiffs cannot merely plead the elements of class certification—they must
present evidence supporting class certification.

Id. (citing Wal-Mart, 121 S. Ct. at 2551;

Comcast Corp., 133 S. Ct. at 1432); Wal-Mart, 131 S. Ct. at 2551 (finding that Rule 23 is not
merely a pleading standard, but also an evidentiary requirement that a plaintiff “prove that there
are in fact sufficiently numerous parties, common questions of law or fact, etc.”).

While

plaintiffs bear the burden of showing that a class complies with Rule 23, the “district court has an
independent obligation to perform a ‘rigorous analysis’ to ensure that all of the prerequisites
have been satisfied.” Wal-Mart, 131 S. Ct. at 2551. To determine whether a plaintiff has met its
burden under the stringent requirements of Rule 23, a court will “probe behind the pleadings
before coming to rest on the certification question” and will consider merits questions to the
extent “that they are relevant to determining whether the Rule 23 prerequisites for class
certification are satisfied.” Id. (quoting Amgen Inc. v. Conn. Ret. Plans & Trust Funds, 133 S. Ct.
1184, 1194–95, 185 L.Ed.2d 308 (2013) (internal quotation marks omitted).

15

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 16 of 47 PageID #: 8357

ARGUMENT
As demonstrated below, class certification is inappropriate in this action because:
(1) The class is not readily identifiable due to the number of unknown
individuals, heirs, and estates with interests in the identified leases.
(2) A class-wide proceeding would not provide common answers to the
claims raised by Plaintiffs due to variations in individual leases, the type of gas
produced from each well, and differing points of sale.
(3) Plaintiffs do not possess the same interests and did not suffer the same
alleged injuries as the purported class members. For example, although Plaintiffs
assert a claim that the purported class was improperly denied payment for natural
gas liquids, such liquids are not produced from any wells located on the named
Plaintiffs’ property.
(4) The named Plaintiffs are not adequate class representatives,
particularly with regard to their liquids claims.
(5) Common questions do not predominate over individual questions
because to determine liability and, if necessary, damages, the Court must interpret
the individual language of thousands of leases, and individually consider the type
and quality of gas produced from each well and the location of each well.
(6) If Plaintiffs are awarded damages, damages will have to be calculated
individually for each class member.
(7) A class action is not the superior method of adjudicating the asserted
claims because thousands of mini-trials will be required to determine issues
including, but not limited to, whether deductions are allowed under the particular
language of each lease, the type of gas that is produced from the wells attached to
each plaintiffs’ leases, the specific volume of gas lost from each well, and who
owns the royalty interest under each lease.
(8) The proposed class includes all West Virginia lessors, regardless of
whether deductions are permitted or even taken in calculating royalty.
For all of these reasons, Plaintiffs’ Motion must be denied.
A.

The Class is Not Readily Identifiable

As a threshold matter, class certification is inappropriate because the class is not readily
identifiable. The Fourth Circuit has “repeatedly recognized that Rule 23 contains an implicit
16

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 17 of 47 PageID #: 8358

threshold requirement that the members of a proposed class be ‘readily identifiable’ [or
“ascertainable”].” Adair, 764 F.3d at 358 (citing Hammond v. Powell, 462 F.2d 1053, 1055 (4th
Cir.1972)); In re A.H. Robins Co., 880 F.2d 709, 728 (4th Cir.1989) abrogated on other grounds,
Amchem Prods., Inc. v. Windsor, 117 S. Ct. 2231(1997)). “[A] class cannot be certified unless a
court can readily identify the class members in reference to objective criteria.” Adair, 764 F.3d at
358 (citing Marcus v. BMW of N. Am., LLC, 687 F.3d 583,593 (3d Cir. 2012); Crosby v. Soc.
Sec. Admin., 796 F.2d 576, 579–80 (1st Cir.1986)). “[P]laintiffs need not be able to identify
every class member at the time of certification. But if class members are impossible to identify
without extensive and individualized fact-finding or ‘mini-trials,’ then a class action is
inappropriate.” Id. (quotations omitted).
Finally, “[a]scertainability mandates a rigorous approach at the outset because of the key
roles it plays as part of a Rule 23(b) (3) class action lawsuit.” Carrera v. Bayer Corp., 727 F.3d
300, 307 (3d Cir. 2013). The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit explained the purpose of
“ascertainability” requirement as follows:
First, it eliminates serious administrative burdens that are
incongruous with the efficiencies expected in a class action by
insisting on the easy identification of class members. . . . Second, it
protects absent class members by facilitating the “best notice
practicable” under Rule 23(c) (2) in a Rule 23(b) (3) action. . . .
Third, it protects defendants by ensuring that those persons who
will be bound by the final judgment are clearly identifiable.
Marcus v. BMW of N. Am., LLC, 687 F.3d 583, 593 (3d Cir. 2012) (citations omitted) (quotations
omitted).
Mineral royalty owners have repeatedly been denied class certification because class
members are not readily identifiable due to ownership issues and varying lease provisions. In
fact, the Fourth Circuit addressed this very issue in Adair. In Adair, the Court stated that class
17

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 18 of 47 PageID #: 8359

certification of cases involving numerous past and current mineral royalty owners is difficult
because the current royalty owners are not often readily identifiable. Id. at 358. The Court
explained that changes in royalty interest ownership create a significant administrative burden,
requiring review of thousands of title documents to resolve heirship, intestacy, and other title
issues. Id. The Fourth Circuit concluded that the administrative burden may prevent plaintiffs
from readily identifying the class members, and remanded the case to the district court for
reconsideration. Id. at 360.
The administrative burden in this case is even greater than that warned of in Adair. EQT
Production is a party to over 25,000 West Virginia lease documents. Plaintiffs contend that the
class should be readily identifiable from EQT Production’s records because EQT Production
pays royalties. This contention is unsupported by the evidence. For example, due to difficulties
in identifying or locating royalty owners, EQT is currently holding approximately 3,500 oil and
gas interests in suspense. Tolman Affidavit, Exh. 8.

12

Additionally, when administering the

2008 Kay Company settlement, it was difficult to determine who was entitled to payment
because so many of the lessors’ heirs were unknown. Id. Indeed, due to these administration
issues, the claims administration process lasted for more than six years. Given the broad class
definitions proposed by Plaintiffs, the Court will not only face the enormous burden of
determining whether thousands of lessors have viable claims related to their leases with EQT
Production, but will also have to identify the exponential number of individuals, heirs, and
estates with interests in those leases.

12 Moreover,

Plaintiffs gloss over that Adair was the ownership case. There are heirship issues
here, but the court focused in Adkins, supra, (the deduct case) on lease variation and practice
variation, issues that Plaintiffs ignore.
18

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 19 of 47 PageID #: 8360

The named Plaintiffs have not helped the Court in this regard, as they have made no
effort to identify other potential class members. See Hamric Depo Exh.10, p. 13; Thomas Depo,
Exh. 11, p. 9; Cather Depo. Exh. 12, p. 13. Two of the named Plaintiffs cannot even name all of
the interest holders with respect to their own leases. See Thomas Depo, Exh.11, p. 9; Cather
Depo, Exh.12, p. 27. If the named Plaintiffs cannot determine all interest holders of their own
leases, it is unreasonable to expect the Court to undertake such a process in a class action. In
short, Plaintiffs have not shown that potential class members can be identified with any degree of
certainty. 13
Thus, to identify class members, this Court would have to (1) conduct an individualized
review of thousands of leases; (2) find the individuals identified in those leases; (3) find all
missing individuals, heirs, and estates with interests in those leases; and (4) adjudicate the
multitude of conflicting claims to the oil and gas interests. This would require a never-ending
series of mini-trials.

See Adair, 764 F.3d at 358 (concluding that “if class members are

impossible to identify without extensive and individualized fact-finding or ‘mini-trials,’ then a
class action is inappropriate.”).

The Fourth Circuit and other federal courts have steadfastly

refused to certify such a class. See Adair, 764 F.3d 347; Johnson v. Kan. City S., 224 F.R.D. 382,
389 (S.D. Miss. 2004) (denying certification on ascertainability grounds because “thousands of
title documents containing differing and diverse conveyance language [] would have to be
analyzed according to the specific language used and applicable case law [reviewed] to ascertain
the intention of the parties to the conveyances and the legal effect of the instruments”), aff'd sub
nom. Johnson v. Kan. City S. Ry. Co., 208 Fed. Appx. 292, 297 (5th Cir. 2006).

13

Plaintiffs attempt to broadly categorize leases of putative class members in their memorandum
but offer no factual support for their sweeping categorizations.
19

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 20 of 47 PageID #: 8361

Even if the Court is able to identify and locate all lessors with valid royalty interests and
resolve disputes as between adverse claimants to the royalties, it would still have to determine
whether the identified individuals and entities have valid claims. To do this, the Court must
examine each and every lease and corresponding royalty statement to determine whether
deductions were improperly taken from the leases. 14 This process would be especially difficult
given the broad class definitions proposed by Plaintiffs and the plethora of unique royalty
provisions in EQT Production’s West Virginia leases. 15 It is this individualized analysis, and
identification of the missing royalty interest owners, that create an insurmountable administrative
burden precluding identification of the proposed class members. Therefore, Plaintiffs’ proposed
class and subclasses do not satisfy the ascertainability requirement.
B.

Plaintiffs Have Not Demonstrated Compliance with Rule 23(a)

Even if Plaintiffs met the threshold requirement of ascertainability, they have not
demonstrated compliance with Rule 23(a). Pursuant to Rule 23(a), Plaintiffs must prove four
elements: numerosity, commonality, typicality, and adequacy of the class representatives. Fed.
R. Civ. P. 23(a). While the class is sufficiently numerous, class certification is prohibited
because Plaintiffs have not demonstrated commonality, typicality, or adequacy of the class
representatives.

14

This also raises the questions: What would the “actual and reasonable” portion of trial look
like? How can an accounting for the entire class be accurate without presenting individualized
data in a series of mini trials? Would the accounting be limited to costs incurred as they pertain
to the named Plaintiffs? Plaintiffs do not address these significant issues.
15

In a review of a sampling of only approximately 500 of the 25,000 EQT West Virginia lease
documents, there were at 61 lease variations identified. Bowman Affidavit, Exh. 5. The
variation identified by this sampling is even larger than the number pointed out in the Adkins
case – variations that the Fourth Circuit relied upon in reversing class certification there.
20

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 21 of 47 PageID #: 8362

1. Plaintiffs Fail to Meet Rule 23(a)’s Commonality Requirement
As in Adair, the named Plaintiffs have not met Rule 23(a)’s commonality requirement.
Adair, 764 F.3d at 362. The crucial factor in satisfying the commonality requirement “is not the
raising of common ‘questions’—even in droves—but, rather the capacity of a classwide
proceeding to generate common answers apt to drive the resolution of the litigation. . . .
Dissimilarities within the proposed class . . . have the potential to impede the generation of
common answers.” Wal-Mart, 131 S. Ct. at 2551 (quotations omitted) (emphasis added). A
common question of law or fact “must be of such a nature that it is capable of classwide
resolution—which means that determination of its truth or falsity will resolve an issue that is
central to the validity of each one of the claims in one stroke.” Id. at 2551. Class certification
will be denied when variations in claims among class members affect the heart of the action.
Deiter v. Microsoft Corp., 436 F.3d 461, 467 (4th Cir. 2006).
Plaintiffs purport to raise eleven “common” questions. Such questions are insufficient to
satisfy the commonality requirement because they will not “generate common answers apt to
drive the resolution of the litigation.” Wal-Mart, 131 S. Ct. at 2551 (emphasis added). Instead,
numerous dissimilarities exist that impede the generation of common answers.

Those

dissimilarities include: variances in lease language; variances in gas content; variances in points
of sale and location of wells; and individualized issues related to lessors’ dealings with EQT
Production. Moreover, Plaintiffs have not even attempted to demonstrate that any of the putative
class members have lease language similar to the named Plaintiffs.
i. Variances in Lease Language
Certifying a class of mineral royalty owners is problematic because they have unique
leases, which require individual review. Adair, 764 F.3d at 362. In West Virginia, like any other
21

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 22 of 47 PageID #: 8363

contract, a lease, “must be considered as an integrated whole, giving effect if possible, to all parts
of the instrument.” Moore v. Johnson Serv. Co., 158 W. Va. 808, 815, 219 S.E.2d 315, 320
(1975). In Estate of Tawney v. Columbia Natural Resources, L.L.C., the West Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals held that lease language must expressly allow deductions, and set forth the
specific deductions and the method of calculating them. 219 W. Va. 266, 274 (2006). Whether
the Tawney test is satisfied depends on the meaning given to the precise words in each lease. See,
e.g., W.W. McDonald Land Co. v. EQT Prod. Co., 983 F. Supp. 2d 790, 805 (S.D.W. Va. 2013),
opinion clarified (Jan. 21, 2014), reconsideration denied (Apr. 11, 2014) (reviewing fewer than a
dozen leases and reaching differing results regarding the deductibility of post-production
expenses under the Tawney analysis based on lease language variation). Thus, Tawney requires
examination of the language of each individual lease and any modifications to the lease to
determine whether deductions are proper. Plaintiffs’ own proffered expert testified that every
lease must be individually analyzed to “see whether or not it specifically allows for deductions or
not (sic).” Reineke Deposition, Exh. 4, p. 87. The Fourth Circuit concluded that “such
individualized review precludes a finding of commonality.” Adair, 764 F.3d at 363. 16
In their brief, Plaintiffs hardly address the Fourth Circuit’s findings in Adair, and instead
attempt to support their motion by arguing that EQT Production’s acts and omissions were
common across the whole class. 17

Plaintiffs acknowledge that “[t]here will be differences

16

See also Isaacs v. Sprint Corp., 261 F.3d 679, 682 (7th Cir.2001) (finding class certification
“decidedly inappropriate” when the case involved “different conveyances by and to different
parties made at different times over a period of more than a century”); Johnson, 208 F. App'x at
297 (concluding that a class failed to satisfy Rule 23(a) when the case involved “a multitude of
property owners, each with individual conveyances stating different things”).
17

Plaintiffs also cite to several inapposite cases from foreign jurisdictions to support their
arguments. Pl.’s Mot. for Class Cert, ECF No. 300, pp. 34, 40. Such cases are factually
22

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 23 of 47 PageID #: 8364

between large groups” but state that those differences “have nothing to do with liability.” Pl.’s
Mot. for Class Cert., ECF No. 300, p. 33. These arguments are without merit.
First, Plaintiffs’ contention that the class is treated the same is not based on the evidence
in the record, as EQT Production’s practices vary depending on the area, play, pipeline, lease,
and well. John Bergonzi, a 33-year employee and former Vice President of Finance and Chief
Accounting Officer of EQT Corporation, testified repeatedly that the specific language of each
individual lease dictates the extent to which a deduction can be taken from a lease, if at all.
Bergonzi Depo., Exh. 16-A, pp. 9-12, 17, 27, 31, 42-43, 45, 185-186. Each individual lease is
reviewed to determine what downstream costs will be taken into account prior to permitting a
cost to be included in the royalty calculation. See id. at pp. 17, 27, 31, 42-43, 45, 185-186; see
also Tolman Depo, Exh. 9, pp. 21-22.
Further, to the extent that EQT engages in common practices, those practices are not
relevant to the ultimate issues of liability in this case. See Adair 764 F.3d at 367 (finding that the
district court abused its discretion where it “focus[ed] only on the number of common practices
without considering the significance of the defendants’ disparate conduct in the broader
litigation.”). On this point, the Fourth Circuit explained as follows:
[T]he question of whether a gathering charge is legitimate will
produce different answers for class members whose leases
specifically authorize that charge versus those whose leases
specifically forbid it. Such dissimilarity will preclude the
generation of a common answer to the plaintiffs’ common
question. See, e.g., Wallace B. Roderick Revocable Living Trust v.
XTO Energy, Inc., 725 F.3d 1213, 1218–1219 (10th Cir. 2013)
(concluding that the plaintiffs failed to demonstrate commonality
when there was significant evidence of lease language variation);
Chieftain Royalty Co. v. XTO Energy, Inc., 528 Fed.Appx. 938,
942–44 (10th Cir. 2013) (remanding to allow the district court to
distinguishable and are not mandatory law in this jurisdiction. Adair, on the other hand, is
directly on point and is a Fourth Circuit case.
23

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 24 of 47 PageID #: 8365

examine whether lease language variations in a similar royalty
underpayment case defeat commonality).
Adair, 764 F.3d at 368. In this case, the varying lease language defeats any purported
commonality resulting from common practices.

Even if EQT Production took the same

deduction from each and every royalty payment, it may result in liability in one instance but not
in another. 18 Under these circumstances, evaluating common practices will not provide common
answers.
Furthermore, despite Plaintiffs contention that any differences between the purported
class “ha[s] nothing to do with liability,” differences in royalty provisions, gas content, etc. are
necessarily tied to liability (and damages) issues. EQT Production’s obligations to each royalty

18

To the extent that Plaintiffs allege commonality based on their contention that the deductions
are not “actual and reasonable,” their arguments are based on a misreading of Tawney. Plaintiffs
misstate the impact of that decision and its application to this case. Plaintiffs’ proffered expert,
Daniel Selby, opined that the costs incurred by EQT Production were not “actual” because they
were based on “forecasts.” Selby Aff. ECF No. 299-20, p. 8. Without providing any support, he
opines that the costs incurred by EQT Production are unreasonable and violate West Virginia
standards. These opinions have no basis in fact or law and are unreliable (see Defendants’
Motion to Exclude). Moreover, the relevant inquiry is not whether EQT Gathering’s gathering
rate is “actual and reasonable,” but whether any deductions taken were based on costs actually
and reasonably incurred by EQT Production. The testimony of Plaintiffs’ other expert,
Daniel Reineke, supports this conclusion. When asked what “actual” means, he testified as
follows:
Q:
Okay. You were asked a question about what actual and reasonable
meant. Would you agree that . . . the word “actual” reflects that it is an expense
actually that is being paid by the producer to the company that’s doing the
transportation on the gathering system?
A.
Actually incurred, I believe, is the language, and that would be money
changing hands?
Q.

Yes.

A.

Right. Somebody writing somebody a check.

Reineke Depo., Exh. 4, pp. 170-71.
24

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 25 of 47 PageID #: 8366

owner depend on the specific language of a lease. Thus, differences between the purported class
members’ leases are intimately tied to any liability determination.
In addition, outside of the mineral royalty context, the Fourth Circuit and other federal
courts have repeatedly denied class certification in cases involving varying contract language. In
Broussard v. Meineke Disc. Muffler Shops, Inc., franchisees of several Meineke shops sued
Meineke for breach of franchise and trademark agreements between franchisees and Meineke.
155 F.3d 331, 340 (4th Cir. 1998).

The franchisees alleged that Meineke made improper

political expenditures. Id. Some franchise agreements allowed for the expenditures at issue,
while others were ambiguous. Id. at 340. The court concluded that the “significant variations in
franchisees’ ‘factual and legal arguments’” made clear that common questions of law or fact
were not present, and held that “plaintiffs cannot advance a single collective breach of contract
action on the basis of multiple different contracts.” Id.
The above case law dictates that Plaintiffs’ proposed class and subclasses fail Rule
23(a)’s commonality requirement. The proposed class and subclasses include leases with
numerous unique royalty clauses, a small sampling of which are described in Bowman’s
affidavit. Bowman Affidavit, Exh. 5. In the 500-lease sample of EQT Production’s 25,000 lease
documents that Bowman examined, at least 61 unique royalty provisions were identified (some
of which are listed above). 19 Plaintiffs themselves have identified at least 96 unique royalty

19

In their brief, Plaintiffs assert that “defendants prepared a list of leases” and categorized them
into twelve different groups based upon their royalty provisions. ECF No. 300, pp. 12-13.
Plaintiffs’ assertion mischaracterizes the facts. The referenced categories were created by the
Plaintiffs, not the Defendants, in the Kay Company Litigation. The categories were only used by
EQT to evaluate its exposure and settlement options during that Litigation. The list was updated
in 2011 in anticipation of the current litigation, but was never imported into Enertia for purposes
of determining royalty payments or deductions. The lease categories are not, and have never
been, used in the ordinary course of EQT Production’s (or any of the other Defendants’)
business. The categories do not, and were never intended to, reflect the basis of the method in
25

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 26 of 47 PageID #: 8367

provisions. See Plaintiffs’ Requests for Admissions, Exh. 14. Incredibly, none of the named
Plaintiffs’ royalty provisions are exactly the same as the quoted language of the 96 unique
royalty provisions they identify. The named Plaintiffs even have differing royalty provisions, as
two of the named Plaintiffs’ leases are clearly the product of negotiation and are not form leases.
None of the named Plaintiffs have flat rate leases, which are a distinct subclass proposed by
Plaintiffs. 20 Furthermore, contrary to Plaintiffs’ unsubstantiated conclusion that EQT uniformly
improperly deducted post-production costs from all of the leases in the proposed subclasses,
EQT does not take deductions from all leases. 21 For example, EQT has not taken a single
deduction from Hamric’s lease since 2007. Barbour Affidavit, Exh. 7.
Most importantly, pursuant to Tawney, whether the deductions were proper requires
independent review of each lease and any lease modification. 22 Plaintiffs attempt to avoid this

which EQT Production pays royalties to lessors. Neither the Land Administration Department
nor the Accounting Department uses the referenced lease categorizations in making or
calculating royalty payments and/or any deductions from those payments. Bergonzi Depo, Exh.
16-B, pp. 58-61. Further, Plaintiffs appear to be under the impression that EQT has all of the
leases “coded” according to these categorizations in Enertia. This is not the case, because these
categories are not used in the ordinary course of business. Id.
20
Flat rate leases will require additional inquiry from the Court, as it will have to determine
whether, and to what extent, the leases have been converted pursuant to W. Va. Code § 22-6-8,
before it can determine whether deductions were inappropriately taken from those lessors’
royalties.
21
Plaintiffs’ proffered expert Daniel Reineke also makes the unsupported assumption that EQT
does not pay Plaintiffs based on the “index price”. Plaintiffs have not presented any evidence to
support this assertion, nor have they pointed to any specific lease that EQT Production has
violated. Such unsupported claims should not be considered by the Court.
22
Furthermore, West Virginia law requires a contract to be construed as a whole, meaning that
the royalty provisions cannot be read in isolation. Johnson Serv. Co., 219 S.E.2d at 317. (“As
with other contracts, the language of a lease agreement must be considered and construed as a
whole, giving effect, if possible, to all parts of the instrument.”). As the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Texas explained:
The court concludes that there are significant differences between
the leases of the proposed class members that make answering the
question of whether Chesapeake violated the royalty provisions
under Texas law a highly individualized inquiry. While it may be
26

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 27 of 47 PageID #: 8368

reality by making conclusory assertions such as “the Court can decide one lease which will
perhaps solve approximately 4000,” and that “there exists thousands of same or similar leases
which the Court can dispose of by deciding the lease issues from one.” Pl.’s Mot. for Class Cert,
ECF No. 300, p. 14, 31. These sweeping statements ignore firmly established law that requires
the Court to conduct an individual analysis of each lease as a whole. These statements also
ignore that simply reviewing the lease itself is insufficient, as the entire lease file must be
reviewed to determine whether there have been lease modifications or amendments which may
affect the royalty provision. Plaintiffs simply cannot demonstrate commonality, because over
25,000 lease documents are at issue in this action.
ii. Variances in Gas Content
In order to assess whether putative class members were properly paid for production from
their leases, the Court would not only have to analyze the language of each lease and its
accompanying file, but also the characteristics of the gas associated with each well and whether
(and where) gas was processed. All gas that enters the interstate pipeline must meet a BTU and
compression standard. The location of a well can play a part in determining whether gas needs
to be processed. Reineke Depo., Exh. 4, p. 35; Friend Depo., Exh. 3, pp. 9-21. Thus, the
true that the specific portions of the royalty provisions highlighted
by the plaintiffs are substantially the same, the court is required to
view the contracts as a whole, and should not give a single
provision “controlling effect.” Accordingly, the contracts in the
plaintiffs’ A, B, and C groups can be further broken down based on
clauses that speak to elements such as “the point of sale” and “cost
at the well” that differ, and in some instances are not included, in
many of the contracts.
Dvorin v. Chesapeake Expl., LLC, No. 3:12-CV-3728-G, 2013 WL 6003433, at *6 (N.D. Tex.
Nov. 13, 2013) (internal citations omitted). Similarly, under West Virginia law, the Court must
look at a lease as a whole in determining the contracting parties’ intent. Thus, not only would
the Court be required to review thousands of royalty provisions, but thousands of leases as a
whole.
27

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 28 of 47 PageID #: 8369

geographic location and quality of gas has a material effect on its marketability, as the amount of
compression, dehydration, and transportation needed prior to entering the interstate pipeline will
vary. See Chieftain Royalty Co. v. XTO Energy, Inc., 528 F. App’x 938, 943 (10th Cir. 2013)
(remanding and directing the district court to consider the varying degree of marketability of gas
between leases in its 23(a) commonality analysis); Wallace B. Roderick Revocable Living Trust
v. XTO Energy, Inc., 725 F.3d 1213, 1219 (10th Cir. 2013) (directing the district court on remand
to consider the extent to which marketability affects commonality).
Additionally, the distance to the interstate pipeline varies between each well. This
distance has a direct correlation to the lost and unaccounted for gas attributable to production
from a specific lease for which the Plaintiffs claim entitlement to payment. Accordingly, to
determine the amount of volume for which Plaintiffs allege they were not paid, the Court will
have to consider the volume of gas produced from each well. This will require individual
inquiry into each and every well.
Further, due to the diverse geological composition of the gas formations in West
Virginia, the type and quality of gas varies. Some regions produce wet gas and others produce
dry gas. See Friend Affidavit; Exh. 15; Friend Depo., Exh. 3, pp. 9-21; Reineke Depo, Exh. 4, p.
65. Natural gas liquids are typically only processed in those regions that produce wet gas, i.e.,
regions with high BTU content. As is evident by the map attached to the Friend Affidavit, the
BTU content varies between wells, with wet gas being almost exclusively produced in Northern
West Virginia. Friend Affidavit, Exh. 15.
EQT Production does not dispute that natural gas liquids are produced under some of its
West Virginia leases. However, the named Plaintiffs are not adequate class representatives
regarding the natural gas liquid revenue claim (as is discussed in more detail, infra). Plaintiffs
28

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 29 of 47 PageID #: 8370

allege that they are entitled to damages for natural gas liquids. Yet, none of the named Plaintiffs’
gas is processed to remove any liquids. Their wells do not produce liquids, aside from an
insubstantial amount of oil that is trucked off and sold separately every few years from only a
couple of wells. Plaintiffs are paid on this separate sale, and, more importantly, no deductions
are taken from those royalties. No butanes, propane, or other liquid hydrocarbon is produced or
sold. Gilmore Affidavit, Exh. 6. Under these circumstances, Plaintiffs’ claims are not common
throughout the class. This also highlights the individualized inquiry that will be necessary to
determine whether each putative class member has a claim with respect to natural gas liquids. In
sum, the differences in the geographic locations of wells and the BTU content of gas produced
under EQT’s West Virginia leases requires individual inquiries into the issue of marketability of
the gas. Such individual inquiries defeat the purpose of a class action. See Arkalon Grazing Ass'n
v. Chesapeake Operating, Inc., No. 09-1394-CM, 2014 WL 3089556, at *3 (D. Kan. July 7,
2014) (holding that the commonality requirement was not met because the court cannot resolve
claims on class-wide basis on the issue of marketability without examining the gas quality of
each individual well).
iii. Individual Analysis of Alleged Representations
Plaintiffs’ claim for fraud similarly requires individual inquiries into each class members’
claim, precluding a finding of commonality. 23 The essential elements in an action for fraud in

23

To the extent Plaintiffs allege fraudulent concealment based on EQT Production’s sale of gas
to EQT Energy; that arrangement was entered into in 2005, well before the Tawney decision. It
is therefore undisputed that EQT Production did not enter into sales agreements with EQT
Energy to avoid the holding in Tawney. Further, EQT Production did not provide false royalty
statements to Plaintiffs. Any charges that are part of the sales price formula were reflected on
each lessor’s royalty statement. These merits issues, however, are not properly before the Court
at this juncture. What is at issue is whether such claims are suitable for class resolution. They
are not. In order to prove liability for such claims, a fact-finder would have to individually
review each alleged misrepresentation made to a lessor and then individually determine if the
29

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 30 of 47 PageID #: 8371

West Virginia are: “(1) that the act of fraud was committed by the defendant; (2) that it was
material and false; (3) that plaintiff relied upon the misrepresentation and was justified in relying
upon it; and (4) that plaintiff was damaged because he relied upon it.” Martin v. ERA Goodfellow
Agency, Inc., 188 W. Va. 140, 142, 423 S.E.2d 379, 381 (1992) (citing Horton v. Tyree, 104
W.Va. 238, 139 S.E. 737 (1927)).
Fraud and negligent misrepresentation claims are not readily susceptible to class action
treatment. Broussard, 155 F.3d at 341; Andrews v. AT & T Co., 95 F.3d 1014, 1025 (11th
Cir.1996) (decertifying class in part because “the plaintiffs would ... have to show, on an
individual basis, that they relied on the misrepresentations, suffered injury as a result, and
incurred a demonstrable amount of damages”); Castano v. Am. Tobacco Co., 84 F.3d 734, 745
(5th Cir.1996) (concluding that “a fraud class action cannot be certified when individual reliance
will be an issue”). Claims of fraud inherently require individualized inquiries into reliance and
knowledge. Broussard, 155 F.3d at 342. This creates such an immense barrier to class
certification that federal circuit courts flatly deny class actions based on fraud where individual
reliance is an issue. See Castano, 84 F.3d 734, 745 (5th Cir.1996). As the Supreme Court
explained in Basic, Inc. v. Levinson, “[r]equiring proof of individualized reliance from each
member of the proposed plaintiff class effectively would have prevented [plaintiffs] from
proceeding with a class action, since individual issues then would have overwhelmed the
common ones.” 108 S. Ct. 978, 989 (1988).
Here, the Court would be required to delve into lessors’ individual interactions with EQT
to decide the fraud claims. For example, any fraud claims by The Kay Company based upon the
fact that EQT Production does not account for wellhead volumes on its check stubs should be
lessor relied on the purported misrepresentation. Such individualized inquiry is not feasible in a
class action.
30

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 31 of 47 PageID #: 8372

barred by the statute of limitations. The Kay Company – as a class representative in the Kay
Company litigation filed against EQT in 2006 – was aware via EQT’s discovery responses that
EQT’s wellhead volumes and sales volumes are not the same. In fact, The Kay Company
entered into a settlement agreement with EQT fully aware of EQT’s demand that any settlement
be based on sales volumes because that was EQT’s practice. EQT has not changed its practices
since that time. Therefore, any fraud claims by The Kay Company should be precluded, as it
was fully informed of EQT’s practices as part of earlier litigation. This example illustrates the
need for individual determinations with regard to each royalty owner’s fraud claim.
It is Plaintiffs’ burden to show that each class member received uniform representations
and reasonably relied upon them. To prove reasonable reliance, Plaintiffs would be required to
demonstrate what each lessor actually knew about the contested royalty payments and the extent
to which they relied upon EQT’s representations. See Broussard, 155 F.3d at 341. 24 Plaintiffs
make the conclusory argument that EQT Production made material misrepresentations to class
members through uniform communication and practices. However, Plaintiffs ignore that over
100 potential class members individually contacted EQT Production, inquiring about their
royalty payments and thereby creating unique individual reliance issues. Tolman Affidavit, Exh.
8. As seen in the log attached to the Tolman Affidavit (Exhibit 8), these inquiries were not
uniform, and primarily dealt with interpreting and applying the unique royalty provisions of a
lessor’s lease. Such communications are not applicable to the class as a whole. Furthermore,
EQT Production regularly receives inquiries from lessors regarding royalty calculation. For

24

See also Zimmerman v. Bell, 800 F.2d 386, 390 (4th Cir. 1986) (denying class certification on
the basis that common questions do not predominate for claims of securities fraud because
reliance of misrepresented facts vary shareholder to shareholder); Thorn v. Jefferson-Pilot Life
Ins. Co., 445 F.3d 311, 321 (4th Cir. 2006) (holding that individual hearings are required for
claims of fraud when plaintiff's knowledge is at issue).
31

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 32 of 47 PageID #: 8373

example, the correspondence attached as Exhibit 17 is just one example of a communication
from royalty owners that is not applicable to the class as a whole.
Furthermore, EQT would have distinct estoppel, waiver, and/or statute of limitations
defenses against those royalty owners who contacted EQT regarding their royalty payments.
These dissimilarities preclude a finding of commonality.
iv. Summary
Plaintiffs seek to resolve claims for thousands of leases with varying royalty provisions
“in one stroke” by certifying a broad class. This obviously cannot be done because the leases are
not uniform, nor is the gas that is produced. See Adair, 764 F.3d at 368 (stating that the
dissimilarity between leases in class allowing for gathering charge will produce different answers
for class members, thus precluding the generation of common answers to the plaintiffs’ common
questions). 25 If Plaintiffs’ claims are certified, the Court must make exhaustive inquiries into
each lease to analyze differing royalty provisions, marketability of gas, wet versus dry gas
production, and the interplay among those issues.

This Court must follow Fourth Circuit

precedent and find that the numerous dissimilarities between class members’ claims preclude a
finding of commonality.
2. Claims Of The Named Plaintiffs Are Not Typical Of Those Of The Class.
“The essence of the typicality requirement is captured by the notion that ‘as goes the
claim of the named plaintiff, so go the claims of the class.’” Dieter, 436 F.3d at 466 (quoting

25

The Fourth Circuit’s decertification of materially distinct leases in Adkins is consistent with
other federal class certification cases. For example, in Morrison v. Anadarko, 280 F.R.D. 621
(W.D. Okla. 2012) the court denied certification, holding that “dissimilarities amongst the
putative class members’ oil and gas leases impedes the generation of common answers because
numerous class members hold market value leases whose value are determined at the well and
numerous other leases that have no valuation point.” Id.
32

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 33 of 47 PageID #: 8374

Broussard, 155 F.3d at 340). The Supreme Court of the United States has “repeatedly held that a
class representative must be part of the class and possess the same interest and suffer the same
injury as the class members.” Gen. Tel. Co. of Sw. v. Falcon, 102 S. Ct. 2364, 2370 (1982)
(quoting East Texas Motor Freight Sys. Inc. v. Rodriguez, 97 S.Ct. 1891 (1977)) (quotations
omitted).
In conducting a typicality analysis “a court must compare the plaintiffs’ claims or
defenses with those of the absent class members. . . . That analysis will necessarily entail [1] a
review of the elements of plaintiffs’ prima facie case[;] ... [2] the facts on which the plaintiff[s]
would necessarily rely to prove [those elements,] and (3) a determination of to what extent those
facts would also prove the claims of the absent class members.” Ealy v. Pinkerton Gov’t Servs.,
Inc., 514 F. App’x 299, 304-05 (4th Cir. 2013) (citations omitted) (quotations omitted).
Despite having the burden to do so, the named Plaintiffs have made no effort to show that
their leases are typical of the leases of any, much less all, of the leases of the putative class
members. This is because they cannot make such a showing. The named Plaintiffs’ claims are
not typical of the absent class members because they have uniquely negotiated royalty provisions
and do not have natural gas liquids produced pursuant to their leases.
i. Lease Variance
Due to material differences in the leases and interests between the named Plaintiffs and
proposed class members, Rule 23(a)’s typicality requirement cannot be met. Numerous
variations in lease language exist as to the deduction of post-production costs and royalties.
Bowman Affidavit, Exh. 5.
The named Plaintiffs’ leases are not typical of all class members. Differences between
the named Plaintiffs’ leases and the putative class members’ leases include the following:
33

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 34 of 47 PageID #: 8375

•

Two of the named Plaintiffs’ leases contain royalty clauses whose claimed
damages are solely dependent on the market value point established within each
lease. Id.

•

The lease of the remaining named Plaintiff contains a proceeds royalty provision
where damages are dependent on the value EQT received from the gas produced.
Id.

•

Two of the named Plaintiffs’ leases contain provisions that were specially
negotiated by the parties and are not likely found in any other proposed class
member’s lease. For example, the Kay Company lease has a price floor of 18
cents per mcf. Id. This is not a standard provision and is not likely to be found in
many, if any, proposed class members’ leases.

•

The deductions described in the named Plaintiffs’ leases are not uniform. The
Cather lease explicitly provides for a share of the pumping cost so long as they
receive an increase in royalty percentage. Id.

•

None of the named Plaintiffs’ leases contain language identical to the 96
categories they identified in their Requests for Admission.

•

None of the named Plaintiffs have “deducts allowed” leases or leases which were
modified to specifically allow deductions.

•

None of the named Plaintiffs have claims typical of those described in proposed
Subclass (a) because none are parties to flat-rate leases that have been converted
under W. Va. Code, § 22-6-8. Barbour Affidavit, Exh. 7.

34

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 35 of 47 PageID #: 8376

The named Plaintiffs’ leases only reflect three variations among thousands of West Virginia
leases. Because the class representatives do not possess the same interests as the absent class
members, typicality is lacking. See Dvorin, 2013 WL 6003433, at *8 (holding that named
plaintiffs were not adequate class members because “[t]hey would have no incentive to pursue
arguments regarding the conflicting provisions in other class members’ leases that do not exist in
their own leases”); Morrison, 280 F.R.D. 621, 625 (W.D. Okla. 2012) (holding that typicality
requirement not met because class members with different valuation provisions in their lease
have different interests).
ii. Gas Quality Variance
The named Plaintiffs’ interests are also atypical of those of many putative class members
because no natural gas liquids are produced under the named Plaintiffs’ leases. Friend Depo.,
Exh. 3, pp. 94-99. As such, the named Plaintiffs have no viable claims for natural gas liquids
revenue and cannot assert those claims on behalf of the proposed classes. Foster, 285 F.R.D. at
644 (citing Falcon, 457 U.S. at 156-57); see also Gen. Tel. Co. of Sw. v. Falcon, 102 S. Ct. 2364,
2370 (1982) (finding that “class representative must be part of the class and possess the same
interest and suffer the same injury as the class members.”).
Compounding the issue is the fact that each class members’ breach of contract claim is
dependent upon whether natural gas liquids are produced and sold from their lease. See Foster,
282 F.R.D. at 559-60 (holding “if a class were certified in this case,… [it] would merely set the
stage for class member-by-class member determinations as to which class members should also
be permitted to recover, on the basis of their facts”). Whether natural gas liquids are produced
and sold is materially affected by factors such as the composition of the gas, distance from the

35

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 36 of 47 PageID #: 8377

interstate pipeline, and requisite processing. These significant differences make the named
Plaintiffs’ claims for breach of contract atypical of a state-wide class.
iii. Fraud Claims
The named Plaintiffs’ claims for fraud are also not typical of the class. Each class
member received unique written representations from EQT in the form of royalty statements.
Additionally, over one hundred proposed class members received additional representations after
inquiring into their royalty payments, and others have engaged in individual correspondence
concerning royalty calculation. These separate inquiries demonstrate that uniform reliance did
not exist by all members of the proposed class. Due to the distinct representations made to
proposed class members and the varying degree of their individual reliance on such
representations, the named Plaintiffs’ claims for fraud are not typical of the class.
In sum, class certification should be denied because the variations in Plaintiffs’ breach of
contract and fraudulent misrepresentation claims render them atypical of the class.
3. The Named Plaintiffs are Not Adequate Class Representatives.
The named Plaintiffs are not adequate class representatives. Under Rule 23(a)(4) “the
representative parties must fairly and adequately protect the interests of the class.” Such
determination is intertwined with the typicality analysis, as a “class representative may not assert
claims on behalf of the class that she herself does not possess.” Foster v. Apache Corp., 285
F.R.D. 632, 644 (W.D. Okla. 2012) (citing Falcon, 457 U.S. at 156-57). Additionally, basic due
process requires that named plaintiffs possess undivided loyalties to class members because they
are adjudicating the rights of all class members. Broussard, 155 F.3d at 338. Therefore, the
district court must closely scrutinize the adequacy of the named plaintiffs and probe behind the
pleadings. See Rattray v. Woodbury County, 614 F.3d 831, 835 (8th Cir.2010) (citing Hansberry
36

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 37 of 47 PageID #: 8378

v. Lee, 311 U.S. 32, 61 S. Ct. 115, 85 L. Ed. 22 (1940); In re Am. Med. Sys., Inc., 75 F.3d 1069,
1082 (6th Cir. 1996).
Further, named plaintiffs must “be of such character as to assure the vigorous prosecution
or defense of the action so that the members’ rights are certain to be protected.” Federal Practice-§ 1766 The Representatives Will Protect the Interests of the Class—Quality Not Quantity Is
Significant, 7A Fed. Prac. & Proc. Civ. § 1766 (3d ed.). The adequacy inquiry focuses on the
following questions:
(i) has plaintiff demonstrated the requisite level of knowledge and
control of the litigation to ensure that he will vigorously prosecute
the claims asserted here and
(ii) has plaintiff demonstrated the requisite credibility to ensure
that he will act as a fiduciary with respect to the class he seeks to
represent.
Shiring v. Tier Techs., Inc., 244 F.R.D. 307, 315 (E.D. Va. 2007). “In conducting this two-part
inquiry it is important to bear in mind that “[a]dequacy is for the plaintiffs to demonstrate; it
is not up to defendants to disprove the presumption of adequacy.” Id. (quoting Berger v. Compaq
Computer Corp., 257 F.3d 475, 481 (5th Cir.2001) (internal quotations omitted) (emphasis
added).
This Court cannot allow Plaintiffs to proceed as representatives of the proposed class and
subclasses. The proposed class definition includes all of EQT’s West Virginia lessors, regardless
of whether deductions are permitted, or even taken, under each respective lease. The named
Plaintiffs’ claims are not typical of the class, creating a direct conflict of interest with class
members who have differing claims. Two of the three Plaintiffs have unique royalty provisions
that are not typical of the proposed class. Further, none of the named Plaintiffs have flat rate
leases that have been converted, rendering them inadequate representatives of that proposed
37

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 38 of 47 PageID #: 8379

subclass. In addition, none of the named Plaintiffs has a natural gas liquids claim. 26 Because the
named Plaintiffs do not have the same lease provisions as all of the absent class members, and do
not have natural gas liquids claims, the absent class members’ interests will not be adequately
protected in a class action. Further, the named Plaintiffs have not demonstrated the requisite
level of knowledge to ensure that they will vigorously prosecute the class claims. They did not
even make an effort to identify all individuals who have an interest in their own leases. Because
of the conflicts of interest and lack of vigorous advocacy on behalf of the proposed class
members, the named Plaintiffs are not adequate class representatives.
C. The Stringent Requirements of Rule § 23(b) Are Not Satisfied
For the reasons already supplied, Plaintiffs cannot demonstrate that common questions
predominate over individual questions or that proceeding as a class action is a superior method
of adjudicating the putative class members’ claims.
1. Common Questions Do Not Predominate Over Individual Questions.
“Under Rule 23(b)(3), whether common questions predominate over individual questions
is a separate inquiry, distinct from the requirements found in Rule 23(a). . . . This balancing test
of common and individual issues is qualitative, not quantitative.” Ealy v. Pinkerton Gov’t Servs.,
Inc., 514 F. App'x 299, 305 (4th Cir. 2013) (citations omitted). The predominance requirement
of Rule 23(b)(3) is “far more demanding” than the commonality requirement of Rule 23(a).
Amchem Prods. v. Windsor, 521 U.S. 591, 623–24, 117 S.Ct. 2231, 138 L.Ed.2d 689 (1997).
The problem with Plaintiffs’ proposed classes is that each lease is a distinctly negotiated
contract with varying terms requiring individualized interpretation. Although the leases may

26

For these reasons alone, claims related to flat rate leases that have been converted and natural
gas liquids are inappropriate for class certification. See Falcon, 457 U.S. at 156-57 (finding that
a plaintiff cannot assert claims on behalf of a class that she does not possess herself).
38

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 39 of 47 PageID #: 8380

share some common provisions, the dissimilarities are pervasive and overwhelming. As
previously discussed, each lease was separately negotiated between the lessors and EQT
Production, or their respective predecessors. These negotiations created numerous lease
variations that cannot be addressed in one stroke. This Court must review each lease and
interpret its associated terms to determine whether a proposed class member has a viable claim.
Moreover, all of the unique leases also require individualized interpretations to determine
damages. Plaintiffs’ expert even acknowledges that individual inquiries will be required to
determine damages. For example, Mr. Reineke opined that damages for unpaid volume can be
calculated by (1) “determining the volume at the wellhead by utilizing the West Virginia tax
department’s data of volume reported per well by defendants to the tax department,” (2)
“subtract[ing] the volume determined by defendants as the volume sold at the point of sale,” (3)
“tak[ing] the result for each well and multiply[ing] it by the index price for the gas sold in that
relevant time period,” and (4) “add[ing] each by month for a total which results in the loss the
class suffers for volume loss.” Reineke Aff., ECF No. 299-24, p. 15 (emphasis added). Mr.
Reineke stated that “these calculations can be made for the entire class by lessors whose leases
do not allow deductions.” Id. (emphasis added). Here, Plaintiffs’ proposed expert witness
acknowledges that damages calculations will require individual analysis of (1) the gas that is
produced from each well, (2) the point of sale, and (3) the individual language of each lease. Mr.
Reineke also testified that he had to re-calculate damages for liquids because he “discovered that
certain wells do go through a processing plant and certain wells don’t go through a processing
plant.” Reineke Depo, Exh. 4, p. 32. This means, to calculate damages for natural gas liquids,
the fact-finder will have to consider whether liquids are produced and whether gas from each
well goes through a processing plant. Thus, the affidavit and testimony of Plaintiffs’ own
39

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 40 of 47 PageID #: 8381

proffered expert demonstrates that common questions do not predominate. See Ward v. Dixie
Nat. Life Ins. Co., 595 F.3d 164,180 (4th Cir. 2010) (“To be sure, individualized damage
determinations cut against class certification under Rule 23(b)(3)”); Broussard, 155 F.3d at 342–
43; Roderick, 725 F.3d at 1220; see also Steering Comm. v. Exxon Mobil Corp., 461 F.3d 598,
602 (5th Cir. 2006).
As explained above, Plaintiffs contend, without any factual basis, that EQT Production
pays royalties in a uniform manner. Even if this contention were accepted as true, 27 uniform
practices alone do not establish that common questions predominate under Rule 23(b) (3) unless
“those practices are relevant to assessing the defendants’ ultimate liability.” Adair, 764 F.3d at
366. Specifically, “uniform treatment of all royalty owners will not carry the day where the
uniform treatment must be measured against, among other things, a remarkable variety of royalty
clauses (to say nothing of marketing conditions—such as distance to an interstate pipeline—at
numerous well sites).” Foster, 282 F.R.D. at 559; see also Roderick, 725 F.3d at 1220 (holding
that predominance is not met simply because a uniform payment methodology exists). “Even a
plethora of identical practices will not satisfy the predominance requirement if the . . . common
conduct has little bearing on the central issue in the litigation—. . .whether the defendants
underpaid royalties. Absent such a relationship, there is no basis for concluding that individual
issues will not predominate.” Adair, 764 F.3d at 366.
The abundance of individual inquiries surrounding the putative class members’ claims
predominate over any alleged “uniform” royalty practice. Only after the interest holders have
27

EQT Production demonstrates above that it does not treat lessors uniformly. It reviews the
particular language of every lease prior to taking a deduction, if any, from a royalty payment.
Bergonzi Depo.,Exh.16-A, pp. 17, 27, 31, 42-43, 45, 185-186. It is this individualized treatment,
as well as the missing royalty interests, that demonstrate that common questions do not
predominate.
40

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 41 of 47 PageID #: 8382

been identified, the leases have been interpreted, and the type, quality, volume, and marketability
of gas produced from each well has been determined, can the Court compare EQT’s actual
performance with its individual contractual obligations to determine liability and damages.
Under these circumstances, it is evident that such individualized inquiries predominate over any
questions common to the putative class and/or subclasses, and that Plaintiffs’ have not satisfied
Rule 23(b)(3)’s predominance requirement. See Adair, 764 F.3d at 368 (“[V]ariable terms . . .
make it difficult, if not impossible, for a court to assess the validity of the defendants’ royalty
payment practices on a classwide basis.”). 28
2. A Class Action is not the Superior Method of Adjudicating Thousands of
Distinct Contracts.
A class action suit is not the superior method of adjudicating the Plaintiffs’ claims. Rule
23(b)(3) requires plaintiffs to demonstrate that a class action is “superior to other available
methods for fairly and efficiently adjudicating the controversy.” Fed. R. Civ. P. 23(b) (3); Adair,
764 F.3d at 371.
Here, the class, as proposed by Plaintiffs, is unmanageable. Consideration of
manageability “encompasses the whole range of practical problems that may render the class

28

See also Broussard, 155 F.3d at 340 (holding that plaintiffs “cannot advance a single
collective breach of contract action on the basis of multiple different contracts”); Dvorin v.
Chesapeake Exploration, LLC, No. 3:12-CV-3728-G, 2013 WL 6003433, at *8 (N.D. Tex. Nov.
13, 2013) (holding that common questions do not predominate in a class action because of
varying royalty provisions and post-production clauses); Arkalon Grazing Ass'n v. Chesapeake
Operating, Inc., No. 09-1394-CM, 2014 WL 3089556, at *3 (D. Kan. July 7, 2014) (holding that
“individual inquiries into the language of each lease and the marketability of gas at each well
preclude a finding of commonality”); Foster, 282 F.R.D. at 562 (holding that common royalty
payment practices does not satisfy Rule 23(b)(3) predominance requirement due to the number
of individualized questions associated with each category of leases); see also Isaacs v. Sprint
Corp., 261 F.3d 679, 682 (7th Cir.2001) (finding class certification “decidedly inappropriate”
when the case involved “different conveyances by and to different parties made at different times
over a period of more than a century”).
41

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 42 of 47 PageID #: 8383

action format inappropriate for a particular suit.” Foster, 282 F.R.D. at 562-63 (quoting Eisen v.
Carlisle & Jacquelin, 94 S.Ct. 2140 (1974)). Plaintiffs seek to certify two broad subclasses
consisting of EQT’s West Virginia royalty owners. To adjudicate the class members’ claims, the
Court would have to individually review each lease, and examine it along with its associated
well(s) to account for variations in gas composition, marketability, differences in processing, and
distance from the interstate pipeline. “Certifying a class with as many individual issues as are
presented in this case will not advance the efficiency and economy of litigation which is a
principal purpose of the procedure.” Foster, 282 F.R.D. at 562-63 (quoting Falcon, 457 U.S. at
159) (citation omitted) (internal quotations omitted). 29
Moreover, Tawney creates another significant manageability issue. This Court must
determine whether costs were “actual and reasonable” with regard to each class member
pursuant to Syllabus Point 2 of Tawney. This analysis requires evidence such as that used in an
accounting action, including, but not limited to, production volumes, gas characteristic analyses
(that would show what downstream activities were necessary to prepare gas for entry into the
interstate pipeline system), what the going-rate is in each field for gathering services, and what
was actually charged to each owner. This analysis will require a string of mini-trials that would
render the action unmanageable.
Furthermore, due to the individualized nature of the claims and the conflicting interests of
the proposed class members, a class action lawsuit is not the superior method of adjudication.

29

See also Fitzgerald v. Chesapeake Operating, Inc., 2014 WL 813861, at *6 (Okla. Civ. App.
Feb. 14, 2014) (holding that a class action is not the superior method of adjudicating royalty
claims because of varying lease terms and marketability of each production field).
42

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 43 of 47 PageID #: 8384

D. Certification of Certain Issues Under 23(c) (4) is Inappropriate
Plaintiffs again take a shotgun approach in arguing that certain issues in this case are
appropriate for certification under Rule 23(c)(4). Plaintiffs have not provided any evidence
demonstrating that certification under Rule 23(c)(4) is appropriate. First, Plaintiffs do not even
set forth the specific issues or claims that they believe are appropriate for certification under
Rule 23(c)(4). See Pl.’s Mot. for Class Cert, ECF No. 300, p. 46-47. Second, for all of the
reasons discussed in Sections B and C, supra, specific issues or claims cannot be certified under
Rule 23(c)(4) because Plaintiffs have not satisfied Rule 23(a)’s commonality, typicality, and
adequacy requirements, or Rule 23(b)(3)’s predominance requirement, for any of their claims.
See Gunnells v. Healthplan Servs., Inc., 348 F.3d 417, 441 (4th Cir. 2003) (explaining that
“subsection 23(c)(4) should be used to separate “one or more” claims that are appropriate for
class treatment, provided that within that claim or claims (rather than within the entire lawsuit as
a whole), the predominance and all other necessary requirements of subsections (a) and (b) of
Rule 23 are met.”). Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ argument that certain issues can be certified for
class resolution fails.
E. Likelihood of Success on the Merits Is Not Relevant to Issues of Class
Certification
To the extent Plaintiffs raise merits issues in their Motion, the likelihood of success on
the merits is not relevant when considering class certification. The Fourth Circuit has held that
the “likelihood of the plaintiffs’ success on the merits . . . is not relevant to the issue of whether
certification is proper.” Thorn v. Jefferson-Pilot Life Ins. Co., 445 F.3d 311, 319 (4th Cir. 2006)
(citations omitted). See also Good v. American Water Works Co., Inc., 310 F.R.D. 274, 284
(S.D. W. Va. 2015) (same). “Rule 23 grants courts no license to engage in free-ranging merits
inquiries at the certification stage. Merits questions may be considered to the extent—but only to
43

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 44 of 47 PageID #: 8385

the extent—that they are relevant to determining whether the Rule 23 prerequisites for class
certification are satisfied.” Amgen Inc. v. Connecticut Retirement Plans & Trust Funds, 133 S.
Ct. 1184, 1194-95, 185 L. Ed. 2d 308, 319 (2013) (citations omitted). 30
In the present case, issues regarding substantive lease provisions affected by the decision
in Tawney will be relevant in addressing class certification issues. For example, of the over
25,000 West Virginia leases at issue, some will be affected by Tawney, while others will not.
Issues touching upon the merits that relate to Tawney are relevant at this stage of the
proceedings, but issues related to fraud and vicarious liability are wholly premature and have no
relevance as to whether class certification is proper.
Furthermore, Plaintiffs’ various arguments relating to alter egos, joint ventures, agency,
imputed liability, and vicarious liability (Doc. No. 300, pp. 19-25, 9/30/16) were considered and
rejected by Judge Stamp in Leggett, et al. v. EQT Production, et al., United States District Court
for the Northern District of West Virginia, Case 1:13-cv-00004-FPS-MJA, at pp. 1-18. In that
case, Judge Stamp also rejected the same fraud arguments Plaintiffs improperly included in their
class certification memorandum. Id. at 18-20.

30

The fact that having a “winning argument on the merits” is irrelevant to whether a
class should be certified is illustrated by the prohibition against “fail safe” classes. “A fail safe
class is one that is defined so that whether a person qualifies as a member depends on whether
the person has a valid claim. Such a class definition is improper because a class member either
wins, or by virtue of losing, is defined out of the class and is therefore not bound by the
judgment.” Paulino v. Dollar Gen. Corp., No. 3:12-CV-75, 2014 WL 1875326, at *3 (N.D.W.
Va. May 9, 2014) (quoting Messner v. Northshore Univ. HealthSys., 669 F.3d 802, 825 (7th
Cir.2012)) (citing Randleman v. Fidelity Nat'l Title Ins. Co., 646 F.3d 347, 352 (6th Cir.2011)
(affirming denial of class certification because the class “only included those who are ‘entitled to
relief,’” rendering it an “improper fail-safe class that shields the putative class members from
receiving an adverse judgment”); Kamar v. RadioShack Corp., 375 F. App'x 734, 736 (9th
Cir.2010) (recognizing that a fail-safe class is one where “the class itself is defined in a way that
precludes membership unless the liability of the defendant is established” and noting that it is
“palpably unfair to the defendant”).
44

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 45 of 47 PageID #: 8386

“Merits questions may be considered to the extent—but only to the extent—that they are
relevant to determining whether the Rule 23 prerequisites for class certification are satisfied.”
Amgen, 133 S. Ct. at 1195, 185 L. Ed. 2d at 319. Plaintiffs’ arguments regarding alter egos, joint
ventures, agency, imputed liability, vicarious liability, and fraud are not relevant to the Court’s
Rule 23 analysis and should be disregarded. More importantly, they have already been rejected
in a case pending in this judicial district and the Court should dismiss those claims based upon
the sound reasoning employed by Judge Stamp.
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, the Court should deny Plaintiffs’ Motion for Class
Certification.
Respectfully submitted,
EQT PRODUCTION COMPANY;
EQT CORPORATION; EQT ENERGY,
LLC; EQT INVESTMENTS HOLDINGS,
LLC; EQT GATHERING, LLC; and
EQT MIDSTREAM PARTNERS, LP,
By Counsel.

/s/ David K. Hendrickson 10/31/2016
David K. Hendrickson, Esquire (#1678)
Carl L. Fletcher, Esquire (#1225)
HENDRICKSON & LONG, PLLC
214 Capitol Street (zip 25301)
P. O. Box 11070
Charleston, WV 25339
(304) 346-5500
(304) 346-5515 (fax)
daveh@handl.com
cfletcher@handl.com

45

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 46 of 47 PageID #: 8387

and
John Kevin West (pro hac vice)
STEPTOE & JOHNSON PLLC
Suite 2200
Huntington Center
41 South High Street
Columbus, Ohio 43215
(614) 458-9889
(614) 221-0952 (facsimile)
kevin.west@steptoe-johnson.com

46

Case 1:13-cv-00151-JPB-JES Document 311 Filed 10/31/16 Page 47 of 47 PageID #: 8388

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA
AT CLARKSBURG
THE KAY COMPANY, LLC,
et al.,
Plaintiffs,
v.

CIVIL ACTION NO. 1:13-cv-151
(Honorable John Preston Bailey)

EQT PRODUCTION COMPANY, et al.,
Defendants.
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I, David K. Hendrickson, counsel for Defendants, do hereby certify that on the 31st day
of October, 2016, a true and exact copy of DEFENDANTS’ MEMORANDUM IN
OPPOSITION TO PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR CLASS CERTIFICATION was served
upon counsel of record as listed below, using the Court’s CM/ECF system, which will deliver
electronic copies of the same to the following:
Marvin W. Masters, Esquire (#2359)

Michael W. Carey, Esquire (#635)

THE MASTERS LAW FIRM, LC

CAREY, SCOTT, DOUGLAS & KESSLER, PLLC

181 Summers Street
Charleston, West Virginia 25301
Counsel for Plaintiffs

Suite 901
707 Virginia Street East
Charleston, West Virginia 25301
Counsel for Plaintiffs

/s/ David K. Hendrickson
10/31/2016
David K. Hendrickson, Esquire (#1678)
Carl L. Fletcher, Esquire (#1225)
HENDRICKSON & LONG, PLLC
214 Capitol Street (zip 25301)
P.O. Box 11070
Charleston, West Virginia 25339
(304) 346-5500
(304) 346-5515 (fax)
daveh@handl.com
cfletcher@handl.com
47

