Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

Filed 06/30/10 Page 1 of 12

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA
Alexandria Division
TERESA L. PENNINGTON,
Plaintiff,
v.

Civil Action No. 1:10cv112

MIDLAND CREDIT MANAGEMENT, INC.,
Defendant.

DEFENDANT MIDLAND CREDIT MANAGEMENT, INC.’S
MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION TO PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Defendant Midland Credit Management, Inc. (“Midland”), by counsel, pursuant
to Fed. R. Civ. P. 37 and Local Rule 37, submits its Memorandum in Opposition to Plaintiff
Teresa L. Pennington’s (“Plaintiff”) Motion for Sanctions (“Motion”) (Docket No. 23).
INTRODUCTION
This Court's Order from the June 11, 2010 hearing regarding Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel (Docket No. 11), stated that Midland was to serve supplemental discovery responses by
close of business on June 16, 2010. Midland served on June 16, 2010, via Priority FedEx, (1)
Midland’s Second Supplemental Answer to Plaintiff’s First Set of Interrogatories, (2) Midland’s
Third Supplemental Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, (3)
Privilege Log, (4) Verification Pages, (5) Midland’s Second Supplemental Rule 26(a)(1)
Disclosures, and (6) documents bates numbered MCM 178 – MCM 445. Plaintiff received
Midland’s supplemental discovery responses on June 17, 2010, at 9:09 a.m.

Midland’s

supplemental discovery responses contained approximately 382 pages of documents. A copy of
the Midland’s Second Supplemental Responses to Plaintiff’s Interrogatories is attached as
Exhibit 1, and Midland’s Third Supplemental Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production
-1-

Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

Filed 06/30/10 Page 2 of 12

of Documents are attached as Exhibit 2. Midland did not violate the Court’s Order by sending
the supplemental discovery responses via Priority FedEx.
Plaintiff’s Motion is not warranted in fact or law. Plaintiff’s counsel attempts to
impose discovery burdens unsupported by law, and misinterprets the Court’s rulings from the
hearing on June 11, 2010. Plaintiff’s counsel pursues this Motion trying to pressure Midland to
make concessions on other discovery issues, to spend time interpreting documents and
conducting Plaintiff’s own investigation, and attempts to harass Midland to settle this case.
Midland’s discovery responses are very detailed and fact specific.

Midland has and will

continue to supplement its discovery responses if additional documents or information are
located.1 Plaintiff has noticed the corporate deposition of Midland on forty-one (41) topics. If
Plaintiff needs further information or has questions about interrogatory answers or documents,
then she is free to question Midland at that time. Plaintiff’s Motion should be denied in its
entirety.
ARGUMENT
A.

Standard for Rule 37(b) Sanctions.
In determining whether sanctions should be imposed, the Fourth Circuit has

articulated the following four part test:
(1) whether non-complying party acted in bad faith;
(2) amount of prejudice noncompliance caused the adversary;
(3) need for deterrence of type of non-compliance; and
(4) whether less drastic sanction would be effective.

1

For example, after substantial research, Midland located and produced the last known address
and phone number for a former employee, Albert Okada, on Tuesday, June 29, 2010. See
Exhibit 3.

-2-

Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

Filed 06/30/10 Page 3 of 12

Sawyers v. Big Lots Stores, Inc., 2009 U.S. Dist. LEXIS at *6 (W.D. Va. 2009); Spicer v.
Universal Forest Prods., 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 77232 *3 (W.D. Va. 2008). In determining
"what sanctions are appropriate, the court must focus on determining a sanction that fits the case
at hand, considering the potential harm to the party seeking discovery and the conduct of the
nonproducing party." Id. at *5. Further, “[e]ven in those cases where it may be found that
failure to produce results in the discovering party's case being jeopardized or prejudiced, it is the
normal rule that the proper sanction 'must be no more severe…than is necessary to prevent
prejudice to the movant.” Taylor v. Specialty Marketing, Inc., 1993 U.S. App. LEXIS 1924 at *5
(4th Cir. 1993) (quoting Wilson v. Volkswagen of America, Inc., 561 F.2d 494, 504 (4th Cir.
1977)). Furthermore, “[s]evere sanctions such as striking defenses or counterclaims require
careful balance because they can brush against a party's right to 'trial by jury and a fair day in
court'….a struck defense or counterclaim can amount, functionally, to dismissal or default
judgment. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit considers dismissal extreme, and
state that a court should do so only when 'the party's noncompliance represents bad faith and
callous disregard for the authority of the district court and the Rules.” Progressive Cas. Ins. Co.
v. Cockrell's Marine Ry., 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 81798 *7 (E.D. Va. 2007). As discussed
below, Midland has complied or attempted to comply with the Court’s order, or simply needed
more time to respond completely.
B.

Midland provided knowledge for each employee in compliance with the Court’s
order.
Plaintiff argues that Midland has not investigated each employee's knowledge

because each employee is not identified in answer to Interrogatory 21. During the June 11, 2010
hearing, the Court denied Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel as to Interrogatory 21, explaining to
Plaintiff that the results of investigation are work product, generated in anticipation of litigation

-3-

Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

Filed 06/30/10 Page 4 of 12

and trial, and that information about the investigation and results are attorney-client privileged.
Midland has supplemented is response to Interrogatory 1, with the results of what it understands
each employee’s knowledge to be.
Plaintiff further argues that Midland’s supplementation is insufficient because it
uses the term “believes.” Midland cannot know for certain what any employee would say if
called to testify under oath, however, based upon results of its investigation, Midland has
identified what it understands to be the subject matter of each employee's knowledge of the facts
of this case.

The standard is to provide relevant and non-privileged information “so that

requesting party has a reasonable opportunity to obtain further discovery leads and information”
- this has been satisfied.
What Plaintiff wants is unduly burdensome, time consuming and expensive.
Plaintiff wants Midland to depose all of its own employees and then report back to Plaintiff. In
essence, Plaintiff is asking Midland to do Plaintiff’s work / investigation, and then, Plaintiff will
likely take depositions and if there is any deviation from what Midland tells Plaintiff, during the
deposition testimony, Plaintiff will likely move for sanctions against Midland.
Plaintiff then argues that Midland’s Second Supplemental Rule 26(a)(1)
Disclosures are insufficient because it does not identify any employees with factual knowledge.
This Court has already denied this argument of Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel, on the grounds that
a party need only identify persons upon whom it will rely to support its defenses. Midland did
identify two employees with post-suit investigation knowledge; Brian Frary and Tanya Flores.
However there were no individuals with personal knowledge of facts to support defenses to
Complaint because this is a corporation. Midland is still investigating who to identify / designate

-4-

Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

Filed 06/30/10 Page 5 of 12

in response to Plaintiff’s Rule 30(b)(6) Notice of Deposition (forty-one (41) topics) and will
supplemental its disclosures and answers accordingly.
C.

Midland provided last known contact information for Albert Okada as soon as it
became available.
This Court has previously denied Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel on this issue.

During the meet and confer, Plaintiff’s counsel asked for the contact information, however,
Midland did not have any. Midland agreed to further investigate the location of Mr. Akada.
While further investigating the location of Mr. Akada, it was determined there was a mistake in
the spelling of the last name, and the correct spelling is “Okada.” Midland then provided
Plaintiff with the correct spelling of the former employee, and provided Plaintiff with the last
known contact information (address and telephone numbers) for Mr. Okada. See Exhibit 3.
There is still sufficient time for Plaintiff to depose Mr. Okada.
D.

Net Worth (Interrogatory 23).
In response to the Court’s Order at the June 11, 2010 Hearing, Midland provided

a supplemental interrogatory response on June 16, 2010. Midland did not have independent
audited documentation showing its net worth, gross or net revenues. Midland is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Encore, a publicly traded company.

Midland’s financial information is

incorporated into Encore’s financial information, which was referenced in the supplemental
interrogatory answer and publicly available.
Plaintiff is correct that Midland’s counsel has been expecting that this information
would be available by certain dates. Unfortunately, this process of creating an estimate of
Midland’s net equity response has been very time consuming since it did not exist previously.
Midland has filed a Motion for Protective Order on this issue (see Docket No. 31). This process
is now complete. At the hearing on July 2, 2010, Midland will provide its estimate net

-5-

Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

Filed 06/30/10 Page 6 of 12

equity/worth and seek protection on its use and disclosure in according with its Motion for
Protective Order.

Plaintiff will be permitted to depose a prepared Midland corporate

representative on this issue.
Any delay in providing a specific estimate on net worth has not caused any
prejudice to Plaintiff. Plaintiff has not yet deposed Midland and there has been no finding
supporting any award of punitive damages. Often this net worth issue is deferred or bifurcated
until necessary in the proceedings.
E.

Plaintiff’s argument that critical documents have not been produced is meritless.
Midland produced the 2007 Receivable Purchase Agreement (MCM 307 – MCM

345) as Confidential and Attorney Eyes Only, pursuant to the terms of the Protective Order
(Docket No. 14) with its June 16, 2010 Supplemental Discovery Responses. Plaintiff argues that
Midland redacted the “identity of the entity selling the accounts (MCM 312), total unpaid
balance (MCM 338); purchase price percentage (MCM 338) and Purchase price (MCM 338)”
(Memo in Support pg. 6). Midland did redact Proprietary and Trade Secret information from the
Receivable Purchase Agreement. However, Midland did not redact the “identity of the entity
selling the accounts,” but rather, it redacted Pricing Information for the Receivables purchased as
a whole.

Plaintiff further argues that Midland violated the Court Order by redacting this

document, however, the Court did not rule that Midland was ordered to divulge Proprietary and
Trade Secret information that may have been contained in the Receivable Purchase Agreement.
The pricing information is proprietary and a trade secret. This pricing information is completely
irrelevant to whether Midland violated the FDCPA and FCRA, and any damages. Plaintiff wants
this information to bias the jury and pressure Midland, not to prove any required element in the
case.

-6-

Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

Filed 06/30/10 Page 7 of 12

Plaintiff argues Midland “claimed that the information could not be obtained in
less than 14 days, but it miraculously appeared in the package of information” served on June 16
and received by Plaintiff of June 17 by Plaintiff. The documents that were produced on June 16
and printed prior to the June 11 hearing had nothing to do with soft pull data Plaintiff is seeking.
Plaintiff is trying to poison the well and mismatch the issues before the Court. Midland did not
say that the information could not be obtained in less than fourteen days. Midland merely asked
for fourteen days to produce the information before it did not know how long would take to
gather such information, and Midland was trying to be conservative in its estimation.
Plaintiff further argues Midland did not produce data exchanged with Experian.
Plaintiff is wrong. Midland produced the data sent to credit reporting bureaus, the skip trace
collection data received was also identified as part of same document that shows data received
from Insight Acxiom as part of skip tracing. As to Plaintiff’s Interrogatories 7 and 9, Rule 33(d)
is appropriate because it is just as easy for Plaintiff to read the documents, and Midland has told
Plaintiff the dates of the soft pulls.
Plaintiff’s counsel knows this documentation has been produced, but claims he
does not understand and demands an explanation. That is the purpose of a deposition. Plaintiff
cannot continue re-writing his discovery requests.
F.

Plaintiff’s arguments on Midland’s Interrogatories are meritless.
1.

Interrogatory No. 5.
Plaintiff argues Midland did not provide information regarding written and oral

communications with Plaintiff. Plaintiff is wrong. Midland identified all written and oral
communications with Plaintiff in its responses to Interrogatory No. 1, which states who had calls
with Plaintiff.

Midland further identified each person who did each thing in response to

-7-

Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

Filed 06/30/10 Page 8 of 12

Interrogatory No. 3, which is incorporated into the response of Interrogatory No. 1, which is
incorporated into Interrogatory No. 15.
2.

Interrogatory No. 13.
Plaintiff argues that the information provided is non-responsive. During the June

11 hearing, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel by ordering Midland to produce
information concerning the process for requesting information from Insight Acxiom (i.e. what
information provided to IA, what information obtained from IA, why there was a request to
obtain new address / phone information about Teresa Pennington from IA). However, at time
the Court ordered this, the Court did not have before it Midland’s first or second supplemental
discovery responses. Midland’s first supplemental responses (served night before the June 11
hearing) and the second supplemental responses (served June 16) provided the information asked
for in response to Interrogatory No. 13. As shown below, Plaintiff is trying to expand the reach
of her interrogatory, as the Court indicated during the hearing she did in her motion to compel.
Plaintiff’s Interrogatory 13

Plaintiff’s Demands in Phone Calls and Briefs

Please state all facts regarding how you
obtained Plaintiff’s address of 13728
Denham Way, Bristow, VA. A full
response hereto will include the date you
acquired or learned of the address, and all
facts related to how you acquired or learned
of the address.

“All the Plaintiff seeks to discover is what facts
lead MCM to believe that she was the Teresa
Pennington that defaulted on the Dell debt. The
TUBASE and TUCOMBO documents
demonstrate that Teresa L. Pennington is a
common name and there were many different ones
to choose from, yet we still cannot discover what
information lead it to believe that Trooper
Pennington was the responsible one.” (Plaintiff’s
Memorandum in Support, page 9)

Again, Plaintiff is seeking to convene a deposition disguised as an interrogatory.
Midland stated how it obtained the address. Nothing more was asked in this interrogatory.

-8-

Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

3.

Filed 06/30/10 Page 9 of 12

Interrogatory No. 16.
Plaintiff argues Midland cannot use Rule 33(d). Plaintiff is wrong. Midland has

provided the substance of communications with Credit Reporting Agencies (“CRAs”), any
subsequent actions taken as a result of communication with CRAs. This was done electronically
and in coordination with the employees previously identified. Plaintiff’s counsel admits he does
not understand the documents. He can educate himself and further investigate his client’s case
during Midland’s deposition and the deposition of TransUnion LLC, which is noticed for July 9
(unless counsel agree to another date).

Again, Plaintiff’s counsel cannot re-write the

interrogatory demanding instructions on how to interpret the data provided.
4.

Interrogatory No. 19.
Midland has provided its policies and procedures and training materials on the

Fair Debt Collection Practices Action and Fair Credit Reporting Act. Further Midland stated that
its Account Managers and Collection Employees are trained using the documents identified
above and produced. The documents detail the training for new hires, discusses specific federal
laws, and instructions on responding to various situations and customer questions. If Plaintiff
has specific questions on training and the content of these procedures, she can inquire further at
the deposition. If Midland was ordered to disclose more information, and misunderstood the
Court’s previous order, it will promptly supplement.
G.

Plaintiff complains about the “production” of witnesses for depositions and objects
to preparing the 30(b)(6) corporate representative for “many” of the topics
identified.
Midland has filed a Motion for Protective Order regarding its Objections to

Plaintiff’s Deposition Topics (see Docket No. 22). The parties conferred and Midland agreed to
reserve objections and withdrew some of its objections, however, Plaintiff would not agree that
any topics are beyond what is appropriate for inquiry during a 30(b)(6) deposition.

-9-

Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

Filed 06/30/10 Page 10 of 12

Despite the Court denying Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel as to the Rule 26(a)(1)
Disclosures, and explaining to Plaintiff at the hearing that Plaintiff's counsel misunderstands
Rule 26(a)(1) because it only requires a party to identify people upon which a party will rely to
support its defenses, Plaintiff complains it should be provided this information.
Plaintiff complains she is being prevented from taking depositions or addressing
relevant topics, but fails to say how or why.

Midland will provide multiple corporate

representatives to testify on the forty-one (41) topics identified by Plaintiff. Midland offered
four (4) days for these depositions prior to the discovery cut-off of July 9. Then, Plaintiff’s
counsel stated he was on vacation and his partner could not conduct the depositions. Midland
has not offered July 15, 16, 19 and 20 for the depositions. Below is the record on this issue.
On or about May 11, 2010, Midland began requesting that Plaintiff provide
available dates for depositions in order to block off dates for depositions of Plaintiff, third party
fact witnesses, and Midland’s corporate representatives and employees.
Plaintiff served her Rule 30(b)(6) Notice of Deposition via email at 5:13 p.m. on
June 14, 2010, which listed forty-one (41) topics and noticed the deposition for June 21, 2010.
Plaintiff also indicated availability to conduct this Rule 30(b)(6) deposition on June 24, 25, 28,
and July 1, 2010. This was the first communication from Plaintiff regarding the date(s) on which
it desires to depose Midland.
Upon receipt on June 14, 2010, of Plaintiff’s Rule 30(b)(6) Notice of Deposition,
Midland diligently began the process of identifying and scheduling its corporate representatives
to testify on the numerous topics identified by Plaintiff. Midland also began the process of
coordinating the schedules of its corporate representatives, its in-house counsel, its outside
counsel, and Plaintiff’s counsel.

- 10 -

Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

Filed 06/30/10 Page 11 of 12

On June 17, 2010, Midland offered July 7, 8, and 9, 2010 as dates for Plaintiff to
conduct its Rule 30(b)(6) deposition and to depose the employees of Midland.
Subsequently, on June 18, 2010, counsel for Plaintiff informed counsel for
Midland that the former is scheduled to be on vacation during the week that encompasses July 7,
8 and 9. Counsel for Plaintiff never mentioned his vacation the week of July 5 until after
Midland proposed those three (3) dates.

Counsel for Plaintiff further represented that his

vacation was not planned until after this Court issued its Scheduling Order, which established
July 9, 2010 as the current discovery cut-off date. As a result of Plaintiff’s counsel’s vacation,
on June 18, 2010, Midland offered July 15, 16, 19 and 20 as potential deposition dates if the
Court extended discovery.
WHEREFORE, Defendant Midland Credit Management, Inc., respectfully
requests this Court deny Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions and grant Defendant such other and
further relief as this Court deems just and proper.

MIDLAND CREDIT MANAGEMENT, INC.

By:

John C. Lynch (VSB # 39267)
Ethan G. Ostroff (VSB #71610)
Counsel for Defendant Midland Credit Management, Inc.
TROUTMAN SANDERS LLP
222 Central Park Avenue, Suite 2000
Virginia Beach, VA 23462
Telephone: (757) 687-7765
Facsimile: (757) 687-1504
E-mail: john.lynch@troutmansanders.com
E-mail: ethan.ostroff@troutmansanders.com

- 11 -

/s/ John C. Lynch
Of Counsel

Case 1:10-cv-00112-TSE-JFA Document 40

Filed 06/30/10 Page 12 of 12

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA
Alexandria Division
TERESA L. PENNINGTON,
Plaintiff,
v.

Civil Action No. 1:10cv112

MIDLAND CREDIT MANAGEMENT, INC.,
Defendant.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on the 30th day of June, 2010, I electronically filed the
foregoing with the Clerk of Court using the CM/ECF system, which will send a notification of
such filing to the following CM/ECF participants:
Counsel for Plaintiff Teresa L. Pennington
A. Hugo Blankenship, III
Thomas B. Christiano
Blankenship & Christiano, P.C.
1984 Isaac Newton Square, Suite 304
Reston, Virginia 20190
E-mail: hugo@blankingship.com
E-mail: tom@blankingship.com

/s/ John C. Lynch
John C. Lynch (VSB # 39267)
Counsel for Defendant
Midland Credit Management, Inc.
TROUTMAN SANDERS LLP
222 Central Park Avenue, Suite 2000
Virginia Beach, VA 23462
Telephone: (757) 687-7765
Facsimile: (757) 687-1504
E-mail: john.lynch@troutmansanders.com
402695v1

- 12 -

