Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 1 of 12

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS
_____________________________________
)
VINCENT DE GIOVANNI, MARIETTE
)
BARROS, DIAMANTINO FERNANDES,
)
MARIA PINTO, MANUEL FERNANDES,
)
MARIA MONTEIRO, and all others similarly
)
situated,
)
)
)
Plaintiffs,
)
)
v.
)
Civ. A. No. 07-10066-MLW
)
JANI-KING INTERNATIONAL, INC.,
)
JANI-KING, INC., and
)
JANI-KING OF BOSTON, INC.
)
)
Defendants.
)
_____________________________________ )

PLAINTIFFS’ CONDITIONAL MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE, OR COORDINATE, THIS
CASE WITH SIMILAR “CLEANING FRANCHISE” MISCLASSIFICATION CASES
There are now pending in this federal district class action cases against four
companies raising identical claims that so-called “cleaning franchise” companies have
misclassified cleaning workers as independent contractors and committed nearly
identical wage violations and other related claims. These cases are: Awuah et al. v.
Coverall North America, Inc., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 07-10287-WGY; De Giovanni et
al. v. Jani-King International, Inc. et al., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 07-10066-MLW;1
Depianti et al. v. Jan-Pro Franchising International, Inc., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 0810663-MLW; and Sola et al. v. CleanNet USA, Inc., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 12-10580JLT. Plaintiffs respectfully file this motion now because they are uncertain as to this

1

Another case related to this Jani-King case was recently filed, Shanley et al. v. Jani-King
International, Inc. et al., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 12-12146-MLW.

Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 2 of 12

Court’s plans regarding the cases currently pending in this session: Jani-King and JanPro. The Court has recently announced that he will be taking senior status as of
January 1, 2013, and will be reducing his civil docket. If the Court intends to divest itself
of these cases, Plaintiffs respectfully request that the Court consolidate these cases
with Coverall (or reassign these cases to Judge William Young so they may be
coordinated with the Coverall litigation) for the reasons discussed below. If the Court
intends to retain these cases, then this motion should be disregarded.2
Coincidentally, this exact situation occurred just a year ago, in relation to another
set of nearly-identical cases, when the Honorable Nancy Gertner retired from the bench.
Plaintiffs’ counsel had filed a series of cases on behalf of skycap employees challenging
the airlines’ imposition of a $2-per bag charge that passengers mistook for the skycaps’
tip. The first-filed of those cases was assigned to Judge Young, DiFiore v. American
Airlines, Inc., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 07-10070-WGY, who presided over the case for
several years, presided over a trial3, and later certified as a national class action a
related case filed against American Airlines after the DiFiore trial, Overka v. American
Airlines, Inc., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 08-10686-WGY, 265 F.R.D. 14 (D. Mass. 2010).
Meanwhile, Judge Gertner had been assigned the later-filed similar cases of Brown v.
United Air Lines, Inc., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 08-10689, and Mitchell v. US Airways,
Inc., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 08-10629, and she presided over those cases for three

2

Plaintiffs are filing this motion with this Court concurrently in the Jani-King and Jan-Pro cases,
with a copy filed in the Coverall case as well.
3

The plaintiffs in DiFiore prevailed at trial, and their verdict was upheld by the SJC. See DiFiore et
al. v. American Airlines, Inc., 454 Mass. 486 (2009). On appeal to the First Circuit, the verdict was later
reversed on federal preemption grounds. See DiFiore et al. v. American Airlines, Inc., 646 F.3d 81 (1st
Cir. 2011), cert denied.

2

Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 3 of 12

years, until her retirement last year.4 Prior to her retirement, Plaintiffs’ counsel
requested that the United and US Air cases be consolidated with the American cases
and reassigned to Judge Young. United, Docket No. 83 (Motion to Consolidate Cases);
US Air, Docket No. 147 (Motion to Consolidate Cases). Ultimately, due to the differing
procedural postures of the cases, as well as the differing defendants in those cases, the
cases were not consolidated. United and US Air, Docket Entry, Oct. 3, 2011. They
were, however, reassigned to Judge Young upon Judge Gertner’s retirement, and
Judge Young proceeded to “coordinate” them, recognizing the similar legal issues they
presented. For example, Judge Young heard argument on the motions to dismiss by
both defendants together at the same hearing and issued one decision on those
motions in both cases. See United, Docket No. 92; US Air, Docket No. 162.5
Just as occurred in that set of cases, the same result makes eminent sense from
a judicial efficiency perspective with respect to these cases as well, should this Court be
planning to divest itself of the Jani-King and Jan-Pro cases. As discussed below, with
some nuances, the fundamental legal issues presented in the cases against all three

4

Those cases led to a series of rulings prior to Judge Gertner’s retirement. See, e.g., United,
Docket Entry, Mar. 26, 2009 (denying motion to dismiss on preemption grounds), Docket No. 60 (order
granting motion for reconsideration; dismissing case on preemption grounds); Docket No. 69 (mem. &
ord. granting Pls’ motion for reconsideration on preemption issue); US Air, Docket Entry, Sept. 22, 2009
(ord. granting partial motion to dismiss on preemption grounds), Docket No. 131 (mem. & ord. granting
Pls’ motion for reconsideration on preemption issue).
5

In addition to those skycaps cases against three airlines (American, United, and US Air), there
was an additional skycaps case against JetBlue, that remained assigned to Judge O’Toole following
Judge Gertner’s retirement. See Travers et al. v. Jet Blue Airways Corp., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 0810730-GAO. Similarly, there remains one other cleaning franchise case that is assigned to another
judge, Judge Tauro. That case is Sola v. CleanNet USA, Inc., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 12-10580-JLT.
Although that case was originally assigned to Judge Young, he recused himself from the case due to his
professional relationship with defense counsel. See CleanNet, Docket No. 6 (Order of Recusal). Just as
with the skycaps cases, where certain efficiencies were had by three cases being coordinated together,
these cleaning franchise cases would likewise benefit from the efficiencies of being coordinated together,
even though one of the cases, CleanNet (which has not had substantive development) remains pending
with another judge.

3

Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 4 of 12

companies are identical. Coordination, if not consolidation, of these cases will allow for
greater efficiencies if the same decision-maker (Judge Young, who has already
presided over two trials, in addition to presiding over determinations of summary
judgment, class certification, and damages calculations in the Coverall matter, and is
thus extremely familiar with the legal issues presented in these cases) were also
charged with presiding over these Jani-King and Jan-Pro cases. These efficiencies
include reducing the burden on the federal court in this district from the alternative
possibility of one, or two, additional federal court judges needing to familiarize
themselves with the complicated histories and arguments presented in these cases.
Further, coordination of these cases will reduce the likelihood of inconsistent rulings,
which would only prolong these litigations by making various appeals inevitable. Finally,
to the extent that appeals are necessary in these cases, coordination of the cases may
streamline the appeals, and minimize the burden on the First Circuit Court of Appeals,
which itself has favored the coordination of the skycaps’ cases, as demonstrated by its
consolidation of the United and US Air cases for oral argument purposes. See Brown et
al. v. United Air Lines, Inc., 1st Cir. Appeal No. 12-1543, Order of Court, Oct. 17, 2012.6
In support of this motion, Plaintiffs will summarize below the common legal
issues presented by these cases, a brief overview of the procedural postures and
histories of these cases, and additional legal authority (beyond the identical situation

6

As discussed above, Judge Young issued a consolidated decision in the United and US Air cases
regarding the question of whether common law claims are preempted by the Airline Deregulation Act, 49
U.S.C. § 41713, an issue presented in both cases. United, Docket No. 92; US Air, Docket No. 162.
Defendants prevailed, and Plaintiffs appealed in both cases. The defendants moved for consolidation of
the appeals, and Plaintiffs objected to the consolidation. Nevertheless, even over Plaintiffs’ objection, the
First Circuit ordered that the cases would be heard together for oral argument. Brown et al. v. United Air
Lines, Inc., 1st Cir. Appeal No. 12-1543, Order of Court, Oct. 17, 2012.

4

Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 5 of 12

that occurred last year with the skycaps cases) in support of consolidation or
coordination of these “cleaning franchise” cases.
COMMON LEGAL ISSUES PRESENTED BY ALL THREE
“CLEANING FRANCHISE” CASES
The fundamental legal issue presented in all of these cases is the plaintiffs’ claim
that they were misclassified as independent contractors under Massachusetts law. In
Coverall, Judge Young determined that they were misclassified, as a matter of law, and
granted summary judgment to the plaintiffs. Awuah et al. v. Coverall North America,
Inc., 707 F. Supp. 2d 80 (D. Mass. 2010). Subsequently, this Court reached the same
determination in the Jani-King case. Jani-King, Docket No. 208 (Order granting Pls.’
Mot. for S.J. et al.). Both Coverall and Jani-King have expressed their intent to appeal
those decisions. In the Jan-Pro case, the same issue is presented, though an additional
legal determination must first be made regarding whether Jan-Pro’s multi-tier “master
franchise” structure shields it from the plaintiffs’ misclassification claim; that issue is now
pending at the SJC. Jan-Pro, Docket No. 153 (Certification of Questions to Supreme
Judicial Court).
In addition to the liability issue, these cases also present the same common
question of what damages the plaintiffs may recover on account of their
misclassification. Plaintiffs believe that this fundamental issue was determined by the
SJC last summer in its decision in Awuah v. Coverall North America, Inc., 460 Mass.
484 (2011) (holding that, as a result of their misclassification, plaintiffs could recover
their franchise fees, fees paid for additional business, and insurance, as well as other
damages, for instance on account of late payment of wages and “chargebacks”).
However, following that decision, the defendants in both Coverall and Jani-King have

5

Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 6 of 12

raised a host of subsidiary legal arguments regarding the application of that decision
and the calculation of the recoverable damages. Judge Young has heard argument on,
and has issued a series of post-SJC orders regarding, the implementation of the SJC’s
decision and has resolved the parties’ remaining disputes regarding the calculation of
damages. See, e.g., Coverall, Docket No. 455 (granting plaintiffs’ motion for summary
judgment on damages), Docket No. 462 (Judgment). Similar issues are expected to be
raised soon in the Jani-King matter.7
OVERVIEW OF PROCEDURAL POSTURES AND HISTORIES OF THESE CASES
Plaintiffs will now provide a brief overview of the current status, and procedural
histories, of these cases.
The Coverall case was filed in 2007 and assigned to Judge Young.8 The current
status of the case is that judgment has entered on behalf of a class and the parties are
now awaiting the court’s rulings on some final issues relating to the calculation of

7

In addition to these fundamental issues of liability and damages under Massachusetts wage laws,
these cases have other similarities as well. Most significantly, the cases share some common questions
about how the plaintiffs’ claims may play out on a national scale. In all three cases (just as with the
coordinated skycaps cases), Plaintiffs’ counsel have brought these claims both inside and outside of
Massachusetts. Though the procedural status of the outside-Massachusetts claims differs among the
three companies, all the cases present the same issue regarding how these claims may best be handled
from an administrative and efficiency perspective. Under the coordination of a single judge, who is quite
familiar with these claims, including the arguments regarding their applicability outside Massachusetts,
the workers for these companies will have the best hope of having their claims adjudicated.
In addition, in all three cases, Plaintiffs have alleged identical common law and deceptive
business practices allegations. Due to the success of the Plaintiffs’ misclassification claims under
Massachusetts law, it may not be necessary for Plaintiffs to pursue those claims in Massachusetts, but
these claims may play a more prominent role in the adjudication of the claims outside Massachusetts.
8

That case followed on the heels of another Coverall case, Machado v. Coverall North America,
Inc., D. Mass. Civil Action No. 05-11884-MLW, which was assigned to this Court. The Machado case
was resolved on behalf of the named plaintiffs in 2006. Following the resolution of the Machado case, the
SJC issued a ruling in another Coverall case, prosecuted by the Attorney General’s office and Greater
Boston Legal Services, Coverall North America, Inc. v. Com’r of Div. of Unemployment Assistance, 447
Mass. 852 (2006) (holding that Coverall “franchisee” was employee for purposes of receiving
unemployment benefits).

6

Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 7 of 12

damages for the class, after which an amended and final judgment will enter.9 Earlier in
the litigation, Judge Young granted summary judgment to the plaintiffs on their claim of
misclassification under Section 148B, 707 F. Supp. 2d 80 (D. Mass. 2010), and he
granted class certification (with respect to all workers who did not have an arbitration
clause in their franchise agreement). Coverall, Docket Entry, Sept. 23, 2011. Following
Judge Young’s grant of summary judgment to the plaintiffs, he certified the case to the
SJC to resolve the issue of what damages the workers could recover on account of their
misclassification. That certification led to the SJC’s decision in Awuah v. Coverall, 460
Mass. 484 (2011).10

9

These issues relate to the calculation of prejudgment interest, as well as to the calculation of
damages for some class members who were more recently added to the class. In addition, the parties in
Coverall are continuing to litigate regarding the enforceability of arbitration clauses that Coverall inserted
into its franchise agreements in 2004. To date, Judge Young has certified a class to include only those
workers who began working for Coverall prior to the implementation of the arbitration provision. Though
Judge Young has, to date, held that these arbitration provisions are enforceable, he has stated repeatedly
that he is reserving final judgment on that question while waiting to compare how workers who had
arbitration agreements fare with arbitration as compared to how workers fare in court. See Coverall,
Docket No. 430 at 19 n.8 (Mem. & Ord.) (by using currently certified class “as a ‘control’ group,” the Court
“can directly compare the two identically situated groups [workers with and without arbitration clauses]
with respect to parameters such as recovery rates and the measure of recovery if any, the access to
adjudicatory processes and the barriers thereto, as well as other appropriate parameters. . .”). Plaintiffs’
counsel have initiated approximately 100 individual arbitration cases against Coverall, on behalf of
workers who were subject to an arbitration clause (which included a class action waiver). Those cases
are now pending. Judge Young has stated though that he is inclined to enter separate and final judgment
for portions of the Coverall case in order to allow some parts of the case to go on appeal, even while
other parts remain pending. Again, were Judge Young to preside over all of these cases, he would be in
a position to determine what issues could go on appeal together from the various cases, and manage the
cases with an eye toward what process, and order of issues to be addressed, would most efficiently lead
the cases to final resolution.
10

Also, the plaintiffs in Coverall raised claims on behalf of a national class, with class
representatives from several states. In May 2010, Judge Young presided over a trial related to the
plaintiffs’ non-misclassification claims (i.e., their claims of common law violations and deceptive business
practices), including plaintiffs from Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and Florida. However, that trial (which
was a “test case” trial, held prior to the court’s ruling on class certification) did not reach a verdict on the
merits, as each of the four lead plaintiffs lost based on individualized defenses (including statute of
limitations and enforceability of releases they had signed). Following that trial, and without any other nonMassachusetts lead plaintiffs in the case, Judge Young denied Plaintiffs’ motion for national class
certification, Coverall, Docket Entry, June 28, 2010 (denying motion to certify nationwide class), and
ordered that if Plaintiffs’ counsel intended to pursue national claims further, they would need to file a new
related case. Coverall, Docket Entry, June 28, 2010 (denying motion to amend to add non-

7

Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 8 of 12

The Jani-King case was filed in 2008 and assigned to Judge Wolf. The current
status of the case is that the Court has granted summary judgment to the plaintiffs on
their misclassification claim, and the next stage of the case will be the adjudication of
damages.11 Previously, the case was certified as a class action on the misclassification
claims. De Giovanni et al. v. Jani-King International, Inc. et al., 262 F.R.D. 71 (D. Mass.
2009).12
The Jan-Pro case was filed in 2008 and assigned to Judge Wolf. The current
status of the case is that the Court has certified questions to the SJC, and the SJC will
hear argument in February 2013. In Jan-Pro, the defendant has argued that it cannot
be liable for misclassification due its use of a “multi-tier” “master franchise” system, in
which an intermediary entity is the entity that had direct contact with the workers. The
Court has certified the question, among others, to the SJC of whether it is necessary to

Massachusetts claims but holding that “Plaintiffs may, of course, file an independent but related action
asserting any claims they may have”). Although Plaintiffs’ counsel have not yet filed that related case,
they intend to do so shortly.
11

Plaintiffs have requested damages discovery from Jani-King and are awaiting its production. The
parties may have disputes regarding the scope of discovery that is appropriate now and the appropriate
method for adjudicating damages. Plaintiffs expect these disputes will be similar to the disputes raised in
Coverall after the SJC’s ruling on damages last summer.

12

Plaintiffs recently filed a related case, Shanley et al. v. Jani-King International, Inc. et al., D.
Mass. Civil Action No. 12-12146-MLW, which has been removed to this Court. They filed this related
case because it has been three years since the class was certified in this case, and they did so in order to
ensure that the class period would go up to the present, without any potential gap (if, for example, the
parties were not able to agree on extending the class period to the present).
In addition, Plaintiffs’ counsel have also raised these same challenges against Jani-King in
separate cases in California and Pennsylvania. In California, the district court granted summary judgment
to Jani-King, holding the workers not to be employees under California law based on the “franchise”
relationship. See Juarez v. Jani-King of California, Inc. et al., N.D. Cal. Civil Action No. 3:09-cv-03495SC, Docket No. 168. That case will shortly be on appeal to the Ninth Circuit. In Juarez, the district court
previously agreed to certify the issue to the Ninth Circuit under 28 U.S.C. § 1292(b), Docket No. 178, but
the Ninth Circuit declined to take the case on an interlocutory appeal. Docket No. 183. Now that final
judgment has entered, the case will be on appeal shortly to the Ninth Circuit. In Pennsylvania, Jani-King
moved to dismiss three years ago, and the federal court recently (two weeks ago) issued its order
denying the motion to dismiss, so the case will now proceed. Myers et al. v. Jani-King of Philadelphia,
Inc. et al., E.D. Pa. Civil Action No. 2:09-cv-01738-RBS, Docket No. 44.

8

Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 9 of 12

have a contract of service between a worker and a company in order for the worker to
have a misclassification claim against the company.13
FURTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY SUPPORTING CONSOLIDATION OR
COORDINATION OF THESE CASES

The Jani-King and Jan-Pro cases raise nearly identical facts and law as the
Coverall case, and it would be an enormous saving of judicial time and resources for
these cases to be managed by the same judge. Plaintiffs anticipate that the defendants
in these cases will raise a host of arguments as to how and why these cases differ from
one another. While there are admittedly a number of procedural differences in how the
cases have developed, and what arguments have been raised by the defendants in
each, the fundamental issues in the cases are the same, and the fundamental wrong
that the plaintiffs seek to redress in these cases is the same.
Moreover, consolidation, or coordination, of these cases would avoid the risk of
conflicting rulings in these very similar cases. As described above, the same general
issues are, or will soon be, facing the courts in all of these cases.
Fed. R. Civ. P. Rule 42 (a) provides:
(a) Consolidation. When actions involving a common question of law or
fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any
or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated; and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein
that may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.

13

In Jan-Pro, by agreement, the parties deferred class certification until after a ruling on summary
judgment. Also, Jan-Pro includes national class allegations, with representative plaintiffs from a number
of states around the country. Along with the Jan-Pro case being litigated here, the parties have engaged
in parallel litigation in Georgia, in which Jan-Pro sought declaratory judgment against several of the
plaintiffs that it was not liable to them for misclassification. The Georgia Supreme Court has stayed its
consideration of the case pending the Massachusetts SJC’s ruling.

9

Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 10 of 12

For consolidation to be ordered, such actions must (1) “involve a common question of
law or fact;” and (2) “avoid unnecessary cost or delay.” See generally In re: Adams
Apple, Inc., 829 F.2d 1484, 1487 (9th Cir. 1987). Further, consolidation is within “the
broad discretion of the district court.” Id. at 1487. In addition, consolidation does not
mean that the actions must be tried together, should there need to be trials in any of
these cases, because the court may at any time order separate trials under Fed. R. Civ.
P. Rule 42(b). Courts have ordered consolidation under this rule, even where the cases
involve different parties. See Kowalski v. Mommy Gina Tuna Resources, 2008 WL
4753282 at *1 (D. Haw. 2008) (granting consolidation of three cases involving different
parties but which “revolved around the same general nucleus of facts”). Moreover, even
if different defendants assert different defenses, there is no reason why the judge in a
consolidated, or coordinated, action would not be able to resolve specific issues as they
relate to a particular defendant or action. If the cases were managed by the same
judge, that judge would be in the best position to determine what issues should be
addressed, and in what order, so as to promote efficiencies, including determining what
issues that would best move the cases along to final conclusion should be heard
together and in what order on appeal.
The Jani-King and Jan-Pro cases raise common and substantially identical
questions of law and fact to the Coverall case. If this Court no longer intends to preside
over these cases after January 1, 2013, it would thus be a burden to the judges of this
district to process these cases on separate tracks, with separate judges needing to
familiarize themselves with the extensive background of these cases, and with each
“reinventing the wheel” on various substantive and procedural decisions. Assigning

10

Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 11 of 12

these cases to different judges would also increase the risk of inconsistent rulings on
identical issues of law, making far more likely the extension of this litigation on appeal.
Accordingly, Plaintiffs submit that it is in the parties’ interests, as well as that of
the court, to consolidate or coordinate the Jani-King and Jan-Pro cases with Coverall,
should this Court choose to divest itself of the Jani-King and Jan-Pro cases following his
acceptance of senior status.

11

Case 1:07-cv-10066-MLW Document 233 Filed 12/13/12 Page 12 of 12

Respectfully submitted,
VINCENT DeGIOVANNI, et al.,
and all others similarly situated,
By their attorneys,

_/s/ Shannon Liss-Riordan______________
Shannon Liss-Riordan, BBO #640716
Hillary Schwab, BBO #666029
Stephen Churchill, BBO # 564158
LICHTEN & LISS-RIORDAN, P.C.
100 Cambridge Street, 20th Floor
Boston, MA 02114
(617) 994-5800
Dated:

December 13, 2012

CERTIFICATE OF CONFERENCE
I hereby certify that I conferred with counsel for Defendants regarding the subject
matter of this motion and Defendants do not assent to the relief requested herein.

_/s/ Shannon Liss-Riordan______________
Shannon Liss-Riordan, Esq.
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that, on December 13, 2012, a copy of this document was served
by electronic filing on all counsel of record.

_/s/ Shannon Liss-Riordan______________
Shannon Liss-Riordan, Esq.

12

