IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI
NORTHERN DIVISION
MARY TROUPE, et al.
VS.

PLAINTIFFS
CIVIL ACTION NO. 3:10-cv-153-HTW-MTP

HALEY BARBOUR, et al.

DEFENDANTS

MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
Defendants David J. Dzielak, Director of the Mississippi Division of
Medicaid, and Diana S. Mikula, Executive Director of the Mississippi Department
of Mental Health, sued solely in their official capacities (“defendants” or “the
State”), hereby move this Court, unopposed by plaintiffs, for a protective order and
state:
1.

The plaintiffs, defendants, and the United States Department of

Justice (“DOJ”)1 are currently voluntarily engaged in complex, structured,
confidential settlement negotiations encompassing this five-year old lawsuit
involving alleged deficiencies in the State’s system of providing children’s mental
health services asserted by plaintiffs and DOJ, and other broad-based federal law
claims separately asserted by DOJ relating to the State’s mental healthcare system.
2.

The intensive confidential settlement negotiations have proceeded for

approximately the past year under agreements between the parties. The
negotiations have involved numerous settlement communications, conference calls,

1

DOJ has appeared as an “interested party” in support of plaintiffs’ claims in this
lawsuit pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 517 [see Docket Nos. 41 & 57], and separately asserted
various putative claims it intends to pursue against the State which encompass plaintiffs’
claims regarding children’s mental health services [see Docket No. 48].

in-person meetings, draft proposed agreements, and countless hours of time and
effort expended by government officials and attorneys. The negotiations have been
undertaken with the expectation that plaintiffs would participate when appropriate
given the overlapping claims regarding children’s mental health services asserted
by plaintiffs and DOJ. The express purpose of the negotiations between plaintiffs,
defendants, and DOJ has been to reach one global settlement resolving plaintiffs’
claims in this lawsuit, DOJ’s positions asserted in support of plaintiffs’ claims in
this lawsuit, and DOJ’s threatened claims against the State. Future conference
calls and in-person meetings for further negotiations are scheduled.
3.

Significantly, the confidential settlement negotiations have been

facilitated through the assistance of Technical Assistance Collaborative (“TAC”), a
well-recognized expert in the field of state mental health services and compliance
with federal law.
4.

The State and DOJ have proceeded with the negotiations facilitated by

TAC with the express understanding that the negotiations, including their
communications and information exchanged by and between themselves and TAC,
would remain confidential pursuant to agreements and this Court’s rules.
5.

Recently, in March 2015, TAC produced a comprehensive “Mississippi

Children’s Behavioral Needs Assessment” (the “March 2015 TAC Report”) providing
its findings and recommendations regarding the State’s children’s mental health
services for the parties’ use in evaluating their respective claims and to further the
ongoing negotiations.
-2-

6.

In February 2015, counsel for plaintiffs were provided with a draft of

TAC’s report regarding the State’s children’s mental health services by DOJ,
however, plaintiffs have not yet been provided a copy of the final March 2015 TAC
Report. However, plaintiffs have expressed a desire to receive a copy of the final
March 2015 TAC Report.
7.

Plaintiffs and the State agree the plaintiffs’ counsel should be provided

a copy of the final March 2015 TAC Report upon issuance of a protective order and
further settlement negotiations, including any documents created or exchanged
during the course of the negotiations, will remain confidential as governed by this
Court’s rules, including Local Rule 83.7.2 The protective order should further
provide the March 2015 TAC Report and any other confidential settlement
communications, information and documents will not be provided to anyone who is
not a party to the negotiations, counsel, or an expert participating in the
confidential settlement negotiations unless all parties agree otherwise in writing.
8.

The requested protective order will protect the confidentiality of the

2

Rule 83.7, enacted pursuant to the Alternative Dispute Resolution Act of 1998, “is
designed to provide access to effective ADR techniques and to encourage mutually
satisfactory resolutions of disputes in all stages of civil litigation.” L.U.R.Civ. 83.7(a). The
Rule applies to “any activity in which the parties mutually engage by consent” to resolve
putative claims without the necessity of trial, including mediation activities “in which
impartial persons assist parties in reaching settlements . . . facilitate communications
between the parties and assist them in their negotiations[, and] [w]hen appropriate . . .
may also offer objective evaluations of cases and may make settlement recommendations.”
L.U.R.Civ. 83.7(d)(1)-(2). And, importantly, to further alternative dispute resolution
activities’ purposes under the Rule, settlement related communications are confidential,
not evidence in any proceeding, and not subject to compelled disclosure absent extremely
limited overriding circumstances. L.U.R.Civ. 83.7(j).

-3-

settlement negotiations which have taken place to date, and the further
negotiations contemplated by the parties, and allow the parties to fully and frankly
pursue an amicable resolution of the complex claims involved without further
involvement by the Court.
9.

Additionally, a protective order is appropriate and necessary because

this Court is the proper authority to determine the applicability of the
confidentiality provisions of its Local Rules to settlement negotiations involving a
lawsuit pending before it. As of this writing, at least one outside party has sought
access to the March 2015 TAC Report. In March 2015, a reporter from The ClarionLedger requested a copy of the March 2015 TAC Report from the Mississippi
Department of Mental Health putatively pursuant to the Mississippi Public Records
Act. The Department denied access to the March 2015 TAC Report. Thereafter, the
newspaper filed a Complaint against the Department in the Chancery Court of
Hinds County seeking a copy of the March 2015 TAC Report and citing the lack of
this Court’s entry of a protective order as grounds for the relief requested. [See
Complaint in Gannett River States Publishing Corporation d/b/a The ClarionLedger v. Mississippi Department of Mental Health, Cause No. G2015-466 W/4,
affixed hereto as Ex. “1”].3
10.

Absent the requested protective order, the State will be unable to

3

As of this writing, the Department has been served with the newspaper’s
Complaint but no further proceedings have taken place or been set in the newspaper’s
lawsuit. The Department’s responsive pleading is currently due May 6, 2015.

-4-

furnish plaintiffs’ counsel with a copy of the March 2015 TAC Report. Further, the
parties’ ongoing confidential settlement negotiations – in which the State only
agreed to proceed based upon their confidential nature – will likely come to an
abrupt end.
11.

Pursuant to Local Rule 7(b)(10), undersigned counsel has discussed

defendants’ motion with counsel for plaintiffs, understands plaintiffs have no
objection to the relief requested, and intends to submit a proposed protective order
to the Court to which plaintiffs have agreed. Further, given defendants’ motion is
unopposed by plaintiffs, and the facts and authorities supporting this motion are
fully set forth above, defendants request the Court waive the requirement of
submitting a separate memorandum of authorities as required by Local Rule
7(b)(4).
FOR THESE REASONS, defendants request the Court enter a protective
order in connection with the parties’ ongoing confidential settlement negotiations
finding and providing:
(1)

There are ongoing confidential settlement negotiations governed by

this Court’s rules;
(2)

Statements made, and documents generated or exchanged by one of

the parties to the negotiations or the Technical Assistance Collaborative (“TAC”) in
the course of the settlement negotiations, including, but not limited to, the March
2015 TAC Mississippi Children’s Behavioral Health Needs Assessment, shall not be
disclosed by any of the parties to the negotiations to anyone who is not a party,
-5-

counsel, or an expert participating in the confidential settlement negotiations,
unless the parties to the negotiations expressly agree otherwise in writing;
(3)

Counsel for defendants shall provide counsel for plaintiffs with a copy

of the March 2015 TAC Mississippi Children’s Behavioral Health Needs
Assessment, and said document shall be subject to the foregoing terms of the
Court’s order; and
(4)

Any further relief deemed appropriate.

THIS the 24th day of April, 2015.
Respectfully submitted,
DAVID J. DZIELAK in his official capacity as
Director of the Mississippi Division of Medicaid,
and DIANA S. MIKULA, in her official capacity as
Executive Director of the Mississippi Department
of Mental Health

/s Harold E. Pizzetta, III
Harold E. Pizzetta, III (Bar No. 99867)
Assistant Attorney General
Office of the Attorney General
P.O. Box 220
Jackson, MS 39205
Telephone No. (601) 359-3680
Facsimile No. (601) 359-2003
hpizz@ago.state.ms.us

-6-

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I, Harold E. Pizzetta, III, Assistant Attorney General for the State of
Mississippi, do hereby certify that on this date, I electronically filed the foregoing
document with the Clerk of Court using the ECF system which sent notification of
such filing to all counsel of record.
THIS the 24th day of April, 2015.
/s Harold E. Pizzetta, III
Harold E. Pizzetta, III

-7-

