Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 1 of 15

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS

____________________________________
)
)
)
)
v.
)
)
BANK OF AMERICA, MBNA AMERICA )
BANK and FIA CARD SERVICES,
)
Defendants
)
)
____________________________________)
WEN Y. CHIANG,
Plaintiff

CIVIL ACTION NO.
08-11908 RWZ

PLAINTIFF’S MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT ON PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
I.

INTRODUCTION
Defendant FIA Card Services, N.A. (“FIA”) and an entity known as Bank of America,

N.A., 1 have filed a motion for summary judgment seeking dismissal of the remaining claim of
Plaintiff Wen Y. Chiang (“Chiang”)2 asserted in his Second Amended Complaint. This
1

Defendants argue that plaintiff sued “Bank of America, N.A.” This argument is false, since plaintiff sued “Bank
of America.” “Bank of America” was the entity that provided him with a Visa card and all of his monthly
statements and correspondence from this entity only state “Bank of America.” All of the documents of the credit
reporting agencies list only “Bank of America” as the creditor. If the proper defendant is “Bank of America, N.A.
(USA)” and that is the entity that issued plaintiff a credit card and made reports to credit reporting agencies about
the account, then that is the defendant sued by plaintiff and the entity who is the defendant in this action.
2

Defendants falsely state that Chiang is a serial litigant and falsely state that Chiang he has filed 34 cases in
federal and state courts since 2006. The Magistrate Judge improperly took a negative view of FIA’s allegation that
Chiang has filed approximately twenty-five cases in state court and eight cases in Federal District Court. These
other law suits have no relevance to the present action that stands upon its own merits. Of the case filed in small
claims court, some were settled and the others resulted in judgments for Chiang or for the other party. Most of the
cases in small claims court were for Chiang’s family members and one case resulted in triple damages against Bank
of America. Of the five cases in Cambridge District Court, one was settled and another was voluntarily dismissed.
As to the five cases in Middlesex Superior Court, two were dismissed and one is under appeal. FIA overstates the
number of state court cases filed by Chiang. For example, Chiang settled one case, but the defendant breached the
settlement agreement, forcing Chiang to file a new action. In addition, two of the state cases were combined and
two were refiled in federal court. A careful review of the court documents submitted by FIA shows that there are
only fifteen state court cases filed by Chiang. See Doc. 49-3. Of the eight cases filed in this court, two were
dismissed, two settled and two are under appeal. In addition, most of the small claims cases were cases of Wen C.

PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 2 of 15

remaining claim is for violation of 15 U.S.C. § 1681s-2(b) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act
(“FCRA”).
Defendants state that Chiang’s FCRA claim refers to a line of credit account ending in
9211 and to a Visa account ending in 7198, but that the Court dismissed Chiang’s claims
pertaining to the line of credit account ending in 9211, noting that this account was the subject
matter of a prior lawsuit that was dismissed on summary judgment.3
Defendants argue that Chiang’s FCRA claims in the present case should be dismissed for
the same reasons that his FCRA claims were dismissed in a case against Verizon New England,
Inc. In that case, the First Circuit affirmed the dismissal of Chiang’s claims. However, the
Verizon case is easily distinguishable from the present case, as shown below.
A furnisher of credit information, such as Bank of America (“BOA”),4 is liable under the
FCRA, if upon receipt of notification from a credit reporting agency (“CRA”), the furnisher fails
to conduct a reasonable investigation of the dispute notification that informs the furnisher of the
nature of the consumer’s challenge to the reported debt. Whether an investigation is reasonable
may vary depending on the circumstances. A plaintiff must also show that a reasonable
investigation would have revealed an inaccuracy. Chiang v. Verizon New England, Inc., 595 F.
3d 26, 38 (1st Cir. 2010). Chiang’s summary judgment materials show that Bank of America’s
Chiang, the brother of Plaintiff Wen Y. Chiang, since about 19 of the small claims cases were the case of Wen C.
Chiang. See Affidavit of Wen C. Chiang, attached to the Affidavit of Dean Carnahan. The original affidavit of
Wen C. Chiang was filed in another case.
3

This Court dismissed Count 10 of the Second Amended Complaint and noted that Chiang made claims regarding
his account ending in 9211 in the prior suit against MBNA America Bank and FIA Card Services. However, all of
the allegations in the prior suit ended in March 2007. Bank of America continued to make unauthorized charges on
the 9211 account and continued to issue negative reports to the credit reporting agencies on this account later in
2007, in 2008 and continuing to the present time. See Affidavit of Wen Y. Chiang, ¶ 8, filed herewith. Thus, these
later claims relating to the account ending in 9211 are the proper subject matter of the present case.
4

FIA alleges that it was the entity that made any reports to a credit reporting agency or that performed an
investigation after receipt of notification from a credit reporting agency of Chiang’s dispute. However, Chiang’s
credit card, his monthly statement and all credit reporting agency documents in this case show that “Bank of
America” is the creditor and the furnisher of information.

2
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 3 of 15

investigation was unreasonable and that a reasonable investigation would revealed inaccuracies
of its reporting to CRAs.
Chiang’s summary judgment evidence shows that Bank of America’s credit reporting
regarding his accounts caused him to suffer recoverable damages. In addition, Chiang can
recover for his out-of-pocket expenses and other damages since the cases cited by defendants are
not on point.
In sum, Chiang has a legitimate FCRA claims against defendants and defendants’ motion
for a summary judgment should be denied. In addition, this Court should deny defendants’
motion for summary judgment pursuant to F.R.Civ.P., Rule 56(f).
II.

DISPUTES OF MATERIAL FACTS
Defendants field a Statement of Material Facts (Doc. 50) with their summary judgment

motion. Chiang has filed a Response to Defendants’ Statement of Facts with his opposition to
the motion for summary judgment.
Defendants’ Statement of Facts and Chiang’s Response to Defendants’ Statement of
Facts show the following disputes as to material facts.
Defendant Bank of America changed Chiang’s Visa account from an account ending in
6419 to an account ending in 1736 after he complained about unauthorized charges. See
Affidavit of Dean Carnahan, Chiang’s deposition, p. 173, l. 2-8.
Chiang’s account may have been over limit in January 2008. However, Bank of America
credited Chiang with this over limit fee by letter dated June 30, 2008. See Affidavit of Wen Y.
Chiang, June 30, 2008 letter from Bank of America. The January 2009 statement lists a
balance of $3,405.70, which is below the credit limit of $3.500.00 (Doc. 52-1, page 43).
Chiang’s account was not over limit in February 2009. The February 24, 2008 statement shows

3
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 4 of 15

that the balance is $3,637.18 (Doc. 52-1. page 43). However, Bank of America overcharged
Chiang for an unauthorized charge on November 3, 2008 in the amount of $381.43. See
Affidavit of Chiang, Statement for November 2008. Bank of America also overcharged
Chiang in the following ways: (1) overdraft protection fees - $30.00; (2) charging interest on the
unauthorized charge - $97.02; (3) charging exorbitant interest - $335.47; (4) charging over limit
fees when the account was not over limit - $78.00). See Affidavit of Chiang, ¶¶ 2-6.
Considering these overcharges, Chiang account was not over limit in February 2009 or in March
2009.
Defendants allege that Bank of America properly investigated the dispute notifications
that it received from credit reporting agencies (“CRAs”) in accordance with its policies and
procedures. However, defendants do not state what their policies and procedures were.
Defendants state that Bank of America received 2,800 dispute notifications (“ACDV’s”) each
day and had 24 employees to investigate and respond to the CRAs. (Doc. 51, ¶ 5). Assuming that
four of these employees were on vacation or out of work for personal reasons, it is reasonable to
infer that 20 employees investigated and responded to the 2,800 ACDVs. It is also reasonable to
infer that with coffee breaks, lunch break and other non-work activities, that each of these
employees worked seven hours each day. Thus, each of these employees would have to
investigate the dispute and report back to the CRA on 20 ACDVs each hour. Three minutes to
investigate each ACDV and report back to the CRA leaves no time for an employee to do more
that a cursory investigation. Bank of America states that these employees have access to the
account and billing records. (Id. at ¶ 6). Thus, these employees only investigate and report on
these limited records. Such a limited, cursory investigation is not a reasonable investigation.

4
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 5 of 15

Chiang is the sole owner of his company and the only shareholder. Thus, these damages
are recoverable, since they were Chiang’s personal losses and damages.
Defendants allege that after an ACDV is investigated, Bank of America will either
confirm, delete or modify the consumer’s credit information. However, there is no evidence that
Bank of America ever responded in any way other that to confirm that its reporting was accurate.
Defendants allege that Bank of America received 10 ACDVs for Chiang’s account
beginning in July 2008. However, this Court has ordered all of the CRAs to produce documents
regarding Chiang’s account and these documents may show other ACDVs or other information
relevant to Chiang’s claims.
Defendants allege that all of its reporting was accurate based on the account history at the
time of reporting. This is nothing but defendants’ allegation that all of its monthly statements
were accurate, when they were not. In addition, this allegation of Bank of America shows only a
limited search to perform its duty of a reasonable investigation. Defendants state that Chiang
had disputed his account information, but do not state the nature of this dispute or the date of the
dispute. On November 15, 2008, Chiang received notice that Experian was reporting that Bank
of America had reported that Chiang’s account was 30 days past due. See Affidavit of Chiang,
Nov. 15, 2008 letter from Discover Card. In addition, defendants’ own document shows that
Bank of America had reported that Chiang was delinquent in his payment in July 2008 and was
one month late in his payments in August, September, November and December 2008. (Doc.
51-1, page 28 of 31). However, the statements for these months (Doc. 52-1) do not show a
delinquency in July 2008 or that Chiang was one month late in his payments for August,
September, November or December 2008. Thus, this reporting was inaccurate and a review of
Bank of America’s monthly statement would have shown these inaccuracies. In addition, the

5
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 6 of 15

Affidavit of Linda Chiang, filed herewith, shows that a buyer obtained Chiang’s credit report in
November 2008 and refused to do business with Chiang because Chiang’s credit report revealed
that he had made a late payment or late payments to a bank. The account records of Bank of
America (Doc. 52-1) do not show any late payments prior to November 2008 or in November
2008. Thus, this reporting by Bank of America was inaccurate. In addition, Bank of America’s
investigation was unreasonable since it ignored it own records that show no late payment.
Defendants do not state what they originally reported to CRAs, e.g. late payments, over
limit, or the date of these initial reports. Defendants only discuss their reports after they received
notification from a CRA.
Defendants allege that Bank of America did not report a late payment on Chiang’s
account until March 23, 2009. However, as shown above, Bank of America did report late
payments in July, August, September, November and December 2008.
Defendants allege that they never reported that Chiang was “over limit” on his Visa
account. However, the ACDVs show that Chiang’s account was being reported as “over limit.”
(Doc. 51-1, page 2 of 31; Doc. 51-1, page 8 of 31).
III.

LEGAL STANDARD
A motion for summary judgment can only be granted when the pleadings, depositions,

answers to interrogatories and admissions on file, together with affidavits, show that there is no
genuine issues as to any material facts and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law. F.R.Civ.P., Rule 56(c). The Court must view the facts in the light most favorable
to the non-moving party and must draw all reasonable inferences in that party’s favor. Barbour
v. Dynamics Research Corp., 63 F. 3d 32, 36-37 (1st Cir. 19950. At the summary judgment
stage, the judge’s function is not himself or herself to weigh the evidence or determine the truth

6
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 7 of 15

of the matter, but to determine whether there is an issue for trial. Anderson v. Liberty Lobby,
Inc., 477 U.S. 247, 249 (1986).
IV.

PLAINTIFF’S SUMMARY JUDGMENT MATERIALS SHOW A VALID FCRA
CLAIM
A.

Plaintiff Must Show That Bank of America Failed to Conduct a Reasonable
Investigation

A furnisher of credit information, such as Bank of America (“BOA”),5 is liable under the
FCRA, if upon receipt of notification from a credit reporting agency (“CRA”), the furnisher fails
to conduct a reasonable investigation of the dispute notification that informs the furnisher of the
nature of the consumer’s challenge to the reported debt. Whether an investigation is reasonable
may vary depending on the circumstances. A plaintiff must also show that a reasonable
investigation would have revealed an inaccuracy. Chiang v. Verizon New England, Inc., 595 F.
3d 26, 38 (1st Cir. 2010). The duty of Bank of America was to determine if the information it
furnished was “incomplete or inaccurate.” Id. at 37.
Notice of a dispute from a consumer does not directly trigger any obligation under the
FCRA. However, a consumer’s affidavits or letters to the creditor can be considered at the
summary judgment phase. Id. at 39.
In the present case, Chiang’s summary judgment materials show that Bank of America’s
investigation was unreasonable6 and that an alternative investigation would have uncovered the
inaccuracies in Bank of America’s reporting.

5

FIA alleges that it was the entity that made any reports to a credit reporting agency or that performed an
investigation after receipt of notification from a credit reporting agency of Chiang’s dispute. However, Chiang’s
credit card, his monthly statement and all credit reporting agency documents in this case show that “Bank of
America” is the creditor and the furnisher of information.
6

Defendants argue that the First Circuit in Chiang v. Verizon found that none of the ACDVs alerted Verizon that
plaintiff was disputing erroneous charges. However, in the present case, the ACDVs notified Bank of America that

7
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 8 of 15

The FCRA protects consumers from dissemination of inaccurate information. Chiang v.
Verizon, supra at 38. In the present case, Chiang’s summary judgment materials demonstrate a
causal relationship between Bank of America’s unreasonable investigation and its failure to
discover inaccuracies in Chiang’s accounts. Id. at 37.
In sum, Chiang’s summary judgment materials show that (1) Bank of America received
dispute notifications (i.e. ACDVs) from credit reporting agencies; (2) Bank of America failed to
conduct a reasonable investigation; and (3) an alternative investigation by Bank of America
would have uncovered factual inaccuracies in Bank of America’s reporting on Chiang’s
accounts.
B.

Bank of America Failed to Conduct a Reasonable Investigation After It
Received ACDVS Relating to Chiang’s Accounts

Chiang’s summary judgment evidence shows that Bank of America failed to conduct
reasonable investigations of the ACDVs defendants claim they received from CRAs. Defendants
allege that they received ten ACDVs from CRAs.7
The Affidavit of Randolph Geiser of FIA Card Services (Doc. 51) states that Bank of
America receives about 2,800 ACDVs from CRAs every day. Bank of America has established t
Credit Bureau Dispute department with about 24 employees, who have access to the account and
billing history, to process, investigate and respond to the CRAs. (Doc. 51, ¶¶ 4, 5). It is
reasonable to infer that four of these employees were on vacation or out of work on each day, so
that twenty employees reviewed the ACDVs, investigated and responded to the CRAs. With
coffee breaks, lunch breaks and other non-work activities, it is reasonable to infer that each of
Chiang claimed that current balance was erroneous (Doc. 51-1, p. 4) and that his account was subject to identity
fraud (Doce. 51-1, p. 22). This information alerted Bank of America to perform more than a cursory investigation.
7
This Court ordered the CRAs to produce specific documents relating to this case and all of the CRAs have
violated the Court’s orders. Chiang has filed motions for contempt against Equifax, Experian and TransUnion.
(Docs. 54, 55 and 56). Until the CRAs provide the documents ordered by the Court, summary judgment is not
appropriate. Until these documents are produced, it cannot be determined whether defendants received only ten
ACDVs.

8
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 9 of 15

these employees performs these tasks seven hours per day. Thus, each employee must review
the ACDVs, perform an investigation and respond back to the applicable CRA for 20 ADCVs
each hour. This would leave only three minutes for an employee to review an ADCV, bring up
the account on another computer, perform an investigation and report back to the CRA. These
three minutes per ACDV leave insufficient time to conduct any reasonable investigation at
all and means that any investigation by Bank of America in the present case is per se
unreasonable and violates the FCRA.
Bank of America alleges that none of the ACDVs alerted it that Chiang was disputing
any particular charge or transaction appearing on his accounts statement. This argument is not
based on reality. As Mr. Geiser states in his affidavit (Doc. 51, ¶ 3), the CRAs only use a
“universal industry dispute code” with its universal industry wording related to the “dispute
code.” However, at this summary judgment phase, the Court should consider affidavits
submitted by Chiang and communications from Chiang to Bank of America describing his
particular disputes in a letter dated July 21, 2008, in a Cardholder Statement on November 3,
2008, in a letter on March 5, 2009, in a letter dated June 9, 2009, in a letter dated June 29, 2009
and in a Cardholder Claim Sheet on May 27, 2009. See Affidavit of Wen Y. Chiang, to which
these communications are attached.
In addition, the Gieser Affidavit (Doc. 51) states that Bank of America employees only
have access to account and billing records. Thus, Bank of America limits its investigations to
only its own account and billing records and never reviews any underlying documents. This was
exactly the type of limited investigating that a jury found was unreasonable in Johnson v. MBNA
America Bank, N.A., 357 F. 3d 426, 431 (4th Cir. 2004). The Bank of America employees

9
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 10 of 15

simply rubber stamp whatever appears in the account and billing records without any
investigation at all.
Thus, Bank of America’s investigation of Chiang’s billing disputes was unreasonable.
C.

Chiang’s Summary Judgment Evidence Shows That an Alternative
Investigation Would Have Revealed Factual Inaccuracies in Bank of
America’s Reporting

Defendants argue that in Chiang v. Verizon, supra, the First Circuit held that a billing
dispute – irrespective of merit – cannot form the basis of a FCRA claim. However, in Chiang v.
Verizon, the First Circuit stated that Verizon was aware of Chiang’s dispute and could have
reviewed his account and billing history and could have confirmed that the factual information,
although disputed, was nonetheless accurate. Chiang v. Verizon, supra at 40. However, in the
present case, Bank of America did not review any underlying documents that would have shown
that its reporting was inaccurate. For example, underlying documents showed that Chiang
disputed the overdraft protection fees.8
In addition, on November 15, 2008, Chiang received notice that Experian was reporting
that Bank of America had reported that Chiang’s account was 30 days past due. See Affidavit of
Chiang, Nov. 15, 2008 letter from Discover Card. In addition, defendants’ own document
shows that Bank of America had reported that Chiang was delinquent in his payment in July
2008 and was one month late in his payments in August, September, November and December
2008. (Doc. 51-1, page 28 of 31). However, the statements for these months (Doc. 52-1) do not
show a delinquency in July 2008 or that Chiang was one month late in his payments for August,
September, November or December 2008. Thus, this reporting was inaccurate and a review of
8

Defendants’ argument that Chiang signed a document authorizing the overdraft protection charges is without
merit since Chiang asked to review the document. The Bank of America employee told Chiang that it was not
necessary to review the document since it was only to obtain an ATM card. Chiang went to a branch office to
complaint about these charges. Bank of America agreed to stop the charges, but refused to do so and refused to
provide the credits to Chaing’s account. See Affidavit of Wen Y. Chiang, ¶¶ 3-4.

10
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 11 of 15

Bank of America’s monthly statements would have shown these inaccuracies. In addition, the
Affidavit of Linda Chiang, filed herewith, shows that a buyer obtained Chiang’s credit report in
November 2008 and refused to do business with Chiang because Chiang’s credit report revealed
that he had made a late payment or late payments to a bank. The account records of Bank of
America (Doc. 52-1) do not show any late payments prior to November 2008 or in November
2008. Thus, this reporting by Bank of America was inaccurate. In addition, Bank of America’s
investigation was unreasonable since it ignored it own records that show no late payments for
these months.
Any reasonable investigation would have uncovered these factual inaccuracies in Bank of
America’s reporting. Also, any reasonable investigation would have revealed the factual
inaccuracies related to the unauthorized charge by RCN, since Bank of America knew it was an
unauthorized charge since Chiang paid RCN with his Bank of America debit card and RCN later
charged the same amount on his credit card. Bank of America refused to remove the charge and
continued to charge Chiang interest on this unauthorized charge for each month. See letters from
Chiang to Bank of America and his Cardholder Claim Statements provided to Bank of America,
attached to the Affidavit of Wen Y. Chiang.
Defendants argue that it was reporting to the CRAs that Chiang was disputing his account
information and that no more was required by Bank of America.9 This argument has no merit
since the FCRA imposes a duty on Bank of America to conduce a reasonable investigation upon
receipt of a dispute notification from a CRA. It was this duty that Bank of America failed to
perform and this failure leads to the liability of Bank of America under the FCRA.

9

Defendants refer to the Affidavit of Geiser to state that Chiang disputed his account information prior to July
2008. However, defendants do not provide the nature of this dispute or the date(s) of the disputes. This is important
since Bank of America may have removed an unauthorized charge, but failed to credit Chiang with the interest Bank
of America had charged on the unauthorized charge.

11
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

D.

Filed 08/26/10 Page 12 of 15

Chiang Has Suffered Recoverable Damages

Chiang’s damages consist of his out-of-pocket expenses when he traveled to Hong Kong
and China in April and May 2008 and when he traveled to China, Hong Kong and Africa in
August 2008. His damages also include $10,000.00 that he owed to his agent for Asia for her
expenses. In addition, Chiang’s damages include the time and income he lost from his local,
residential construction work for the times he was traveling. See Doc. 53-6; Doc. 53-7 at Int.
Answers No. 5, 6 and 7.
Chiang met a buyer in Asia who was willing to buy a large quantity of used rail from
Chiang. This buyer stated that he would obtain a credit report of Chiang to ensure that Chiang
had good credit and the ability to do business with Chiang. In late October and in November
2008, the buyer told Chiang’s agent that he had obtained Chiang’s credit report that stated that
Chiang had a late payment history and a history of being over his credit limit with Bank of
America accounts ending in 9211 and 6419. Because of this negative reporting by Bank of
America and Bank of America’s refusal to correct its inaccurate reporting, this buyer refused to
do business with Chiang, causing Chiang damages. See Affidavit of Linda Chiang, attached to
Affidavit of Dean Carnahan, filed herewith. Chiang’s Visa account was never over limit
because of Bank of America’s unauthorized and illegal charges.
Thus, as a result of Bank of America’s inaccurate reporting, its failure to make a
reasonable investigation and its continuing the erroneous reporting, Chiang suffered these
damages that were directly caused by Bank of America’s violation of the FCRA.
Defendants argue that Chiang cannot recover for business damages, citing Zeller v.
Samia, 758 F. Supp. 775 (D. Mass. 1991) and Yeager v. TRW, Inc.. 961 F. Supp. 161 (E.D.
Tex. 1997). However, both of these cases do not discuss damages recoverable under the FCRA.

12
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 13 of 15

Both of these cases hold that if a credit report is used to assist a person’s application for personal
credit, the information constitutes a “consumer report” and is governed by the FCRA. Credit
reports issued for commercial, business or professional purposed are outside the scope of the
FCRA. Defendants also cite the case of Natale v. TRW, Inc., 1999 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 3882 *12
(N.D. Cal. 1999). That case also involved the application for credit and not damages recoverable
under the FCRA. The present case does not involve Chiang’s applications for credit. Thus, the
cases cited by defendant do not apply to Chiang’s claim for damages in the present case.
E.

Defendants’ Summary Judgment Should Be Denied Pursuant to F.R.Civ.P.,
Rule 56(f)

Rule 56(f) established a procedure to handle situations where the party opposition
summary judgment needs additional time to take discovery before responding to the motion. In
this situation, the party may file a Rule 56(f) affidavit stating the need for additional discovery
and asking that the summary judgment be either denied or deferred pending the additional
discovery. F.R.Civ.P., Rule 56(f); also see Colotex Corp. v. Catrett, 44 U.S. 317, 326 (1986).
Summary judgment should be refused, at least for the moment “where the non-moving party has
not had the opportunity to discover information that is essential to his opposition.” Anderson v.
Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 260, n. 5 (1986). In the present case, the problem has arisen
since the CRAs have not honored the Court’s orders and have failed to produce the documents
ordered by the Court. These documents are needed by Chiang to support his FCRA claim
against defendants. This situation is just the same as a need for additional discovery.
On July 14, 2010, this Court issued Orders directing the three credit reporting agencies
(Experian, Equifax and TransUnion) to produce specific documents related to plaintiff’s claims
in this case. TransUnion has produced no documents. Experian has produced a few documents,
but need a court order to produce its “internal” documents. Plaintiff has filed a Motion for a

13
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 14 of 15

Confidentiality Order (Doc. 58) that must be signed by the Court and forwarded to Experian to
obtain its “internal” documents. Equifax has produced some documents irrelevant documents
and did not produce all notifications that it sent to Bank of America. Due to the failure of the
credit reporting agencies to comply with the Court’s Order, plaintiff cannot present by affidavit
(or the certifications attached to the Court’s Order to be signed by the custodian of each credit
reporting agency) facts essential to justify plaintiff’s opposition to defendants’ summary
judgment motion. See Fed.R.Civ.P. 56(f). See Affidavit of Dean Carnahan, ¶¶ 2-4, filed
herewith.
For these reasons, the Court should deny defendants’ motion for summary judgment.
V.

CONCLUSION
Chiang’s evidence shows that Bank of America violated its FCRA duty to perform a

reasonable investigation upon receipt of a dispute notification from a CRA. Chiang’s evidence
also shows that Bank of America’s reporting contained factual inaccuracies and that an
alternative investigation would have uncovered these factual inaccuracies. In addition, Chiang’s
evidence shows that Bank of America’s employees only had three minutes to review an ACDV
from a CRA, perform a reasonable investigation and report back to the CRA. This evidence
shows that these employees did not have time to perform any investigation at all. As a result,
Bank of America violated its duty to perform a reasonable investigation. Chiang’s evidence also
shows that he suffered damages recoverable under the FCRA caused by Bank of America’s
inaccurate reporting and its refusal to correct this incorrect reporting. This Court should deny
defendants’ motion for summary judgment pursuant to F.R.Civ.P., Rule 56(f).
Accordingly, Chiang respectfully requests this Court to deny defendants’ motion for
summary judgment.

14
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

Case 1:08-cv-11908-RWZ Document 60

Filed 08/26/10 Page 15 of 15

By Plaintiff’s Attorney,

Dated: August 26, 2010

/s/ Dean Carnahan___________________
DEAN CARNAHAN
BBO #074580
LAW OFFICES OF DEAN CARNAHAN
51 Newcomb Street
Arlington, MA 02474
(781) 641-2825

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I, Dean Carnahan, hereby certify that on this day, I served a copy of this notice to counsel
for defendants, by and through the ECF filing system.
Date: August 26, 2010

/s/ Dean Carnahan__________________
Dean Carnahan

B-2403-MOSJ

15
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com

