Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 36

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

FedCURE,
Plaintiff,
Civil Action No. 07-0843 (RBW)
v.
HARLEY G. LAPPIN, Director
Federal Bureau of Prisons,

January 11, 2008

Defendant.

PLAINTIFF’S OPPOSITION TO
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Plaintiff Federal Cure, Inc. (FedCURE), respectfully files this opposition to the summary
judgment motion of Harley G. Lappin, Director, Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP), and moves for
summary judgment in its favor concerning the denied fee waiver.
The record supports FedCURE’s entitlement to a fee waiver under the Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. § 552 (2007). The FOIA request in question concerns records
on use of ion spectrometer scanning equipment in BOP facilities.1 FedCURE meets all the
requirements of the public interest prong of the fee waiver test. Therefore, FedCURE is entitled
to a complete fee waiver.
Moreover, FedCURE is qualified for a fee waiver under both the “representative of the
news media” or “noncommercial scientific institution” categories. 5 U.S.C. § 552(a).

1

The Defendant explains the ion spectrometer scanning equipment in its Memorandum
in Support of Summary Judgment, at 102, fn. 1.

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 36

Lastly, Defendant relies upon the Declaration of Wilson J. Moorer (Lappin Memorandum
at Exhibit 1). Defendant cannot introduce this Declaration because it is not part in the
administrative record.
As Defendant acknowledges, the Court’s de novo review is limited to the administrative
record. (Lappin Memorandum at 10-11); Prison Legal News v. Lappin, 436 F.Supp.2d 17, 22
(D.D.C. 2006). The Moorer Declaration is dated June 22, 2007, after the close of the
administrative record with the Department of Justice (DOJ) denial of FedCURE’s request for
reconsideration of the appeal decision. (Exhibit I, November 8, 2006, Letter from Daniel J.
Metcalfe, Director, Office of Information and Privacy, DOJ).
The administrative record consists of the correspondence between FedCURE, BOP and
DOJ concerning the FOIA request, the fee waiver application, the appeal and the reconsideration.
Therefore, this Court should disregard the Moorer Declaration.
I. STATEMENT OF FACTS
AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND.
A. Description of the Requester, FedCURE.
FedCURE is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. (Exhibit E, November 1, 2005, letter
from Kennth Linn, Esq., FedCURE Chairman, to Co-Direcor, OIP, the DOJ’s Office of
Information and Privacy). Wanda Hunt’s September 26, 2005, denial of a Fees Waiver
(Exhibit D) directed Mr. Linn and FedCURE to appeal the denial of a Fees Waiver to the DOJ’s
OIP. FedCURE’s directors and staff serve with no pay. (Ex. E).
FedCURE’s primary function is providing information to the public about the workings
of the United States Bureau of Prisons (BOP) and the federal prison system. Id. FedCURE is the
world’s leading expert group in matters relating to federal prison inmates. Collectively, five of
-2-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 3 of 36

FedCURE’s 14 board members have over 50 years of prison experience — “behind the fence” —
as former federal inmates. (Exhibit C, April 20, 2005, Letter from Mr. Linn to the FOIPA Unit,
BOP).
FedCURE receives less than $5000.00 in yearly donations. Id. The organization
publishes a newsletter sent to the public and maintains a website with regular daily news updates.
Id.
As of November 2005, FedCURE’s two-year-old website had had over 250,000 visits, or
“hits.” The organization also maintained a chat site at Yahoo Groups. The chat cite received as
many as 100 requests a day for information on the federal prison system. (Exhibit E and Exhibit
J, page prints from www.FedCURE.org).
B. Initial FOIA Request to BOP.
By letter dated February 25, 2005, Mr. Linn, on behalf of FedCURE, requested that the
BOP release, pursuant to FOIA and the Privacy Act:
1) All information about the accuracy of the ion spectrometer
scanning method and the number of visitors turned away at all
BOP facilities (by facility) because of the results f the scanning
method since institution of its use
2) all information relating to the training methods used for
personnel operating this equipment and staff comments as to these
methods and
3) all records of equipment failures and repairs.
(Exhibit A).
C. BOP Response, Listing Search Time and Charges.
The BOP responded on April 4, 2005. In this letter, the BOP stated that the search would
consist of 142 hours, with staff time assessed at $7.00 per quarter hour. The total charge was
-3-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 4 of 36

$3,976.00, not including a duplication fee of 10 cents per page. (Exhibit B, the April 4, 2005,
Letter from Wanda M. Hunt, Chief, FOIA/PA Section, to Mr. Linn). The BOP required payment
of the $3,976.00 before retrieving and reviewing the records.
D. FedCURE’s Application for a Fee Waiver.
In response, FedCURE applied for a fee waiver (Exhibit C) on April 20, 2005, for the
document search and duplication. In support of the fee waiver, FedCURE noted its non-profit
status, less than $5,000.00 in yearly donations, newsletter and website.
FedCURE further explained that it qualified for a fee waiver because:
1. We are considered a “noncommercial scientific institution”
since we are involved in the social sciences, keep an extensive
library, can be called a “think tank” and devoted time and
resources to research and dissemination of information on matters
of public interest. ...
2. We are representatives of the news media through our regular
newsletters. ...
3. The information sought is in the pubic interest because it is
likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the
operations of the government and is certainly not in the
commercial interest of the requestor. ... Ettinger v. FBI, 596
F.Supp. 867, 872 (D.Mass. 1984) (public interest test to be
liberally construed).
Id. (Some citations omitted).
FedCURE also explained the need for disseminating the ion spectrometer information.
FedCure has received numerous requests from the public for the
information requested and we intend to publish the response in our
newsletter and on our website. The information has value to the

-4-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 5 of 36

public — particularly those who regularly visit incarcerated federal
inmates. The information is not now in the public domain.
Id.2
E. BOP’s Denial of the Fee Waiver Application.
In a September 26, 2005, letter, the BOP denied FedCURE’s application for the fee
waiver. (Exhibit D: September 26, 2005, Letter from Ms. Hunt to Mr. Linn). The BOP relied
upon the two-prong statutory test of public interest and lack of commercial interest. Id., citing 5
U.S.C. § 552(A)(4)(A)(iii). (See discussion of this test, below).
BOP also applied the six regulatory factors, the four under the public interest prong and
the two under the lack of commercial interest prong. Id. See 28 C.F.R. §§ 16.11 (a)-(k) (2007)
(See also discussion of factors, below).
The September 26, 2005, denial, however, did not contain any factual findings. Id.
Although BOP claimed that it analyzed the above six factors “as they applied to the
circumstances of your request,” BOP did not provide an explanation of this analysis. (Id. at 2).
BOP’s explanation of why FedCURE did not qualify for the “noncommercial scientific
institution” category was equally conclusory. After enunciating the definition of such an
institution, BOP simply stated:
Based on the information you have provided, this definition has not
been met.
Id.

2

As Defendant explained in its memorandum, ion spectrometry detects microscopic
traces of illegal drugs on prison visitors and their clothing and belongings. (Lappin
Memorandum at 1-2, fn. 1).
-5-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 6 of 36

Likewise, in rejecting FedCURE’s claim that it was a “representative of the news media,”
BOP, after defining this category, concluded:
Based on the information you have provided, this definition has not
been met.
Id.
Lastly, the BOP concluded that:
There is no evidence that releasing the information to you will
contribute significantly to the public’s understanding of how the
Bureau of Prisons operates.
Id.
The BOP’s denial never discussed any of the supporting evidence that FedCURE had
included in its fee application.
F. FedCURE’s Appeal of the Fee Waiver Denial.
By letter of November 1, 2005, FedCURE appealed BOP’s denial of its fee waiver
application to the Department of Justice (Exhibit E). In this appeal, FedCURE described the
nature of the organization, its two-year-old website with over 250,000 hits and the Yahoo chat
site with over 100 requests for information each day. Id.
The letter renewed FedCURE’s contentions that it met the definitions of “representative
of the news media,” “noncommercial scientific think tank” and the information on ion
spectrometry was in the public interest. Id.
The appeal letter also noted that:
There are numerous cases holding that the public interest benefit
test is to be liberally construed.
Id.
-6-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 7 of 36

The letter further stated:
Moreover, FedCure is a 501(c)(3) non-profit. Its directors and staff
serve with no pay. The primary function of FedCure is to provide
information to the public about the workings of the Bureau of
Prisons. In particular, FedCure has received hundreds of
questions and complaints about ion spectrometer procedures
and the reasoning behind their use.
FedCure meets each of the six factors used to determine whether a
fee waiver should be granted: 1. This request deals solely with the
operations of government. 2. The disclosure would contribute to
the public’s understanding of government operations. 3. The
general public at large is interested in the use of these machines. 4.
The disclosure would “significantly” answer the public’s questions.
5. FedCure has no commercial interest whatsoever in the
disclosure. 6. There is no commercial interest to outweigh the
public interest.
On October 27, 2005, the Chairman of FedCure, Kenny Linn, met
with the Director of the Bureau of Prisons, Harley Lappin, in his
office about various prison issues. First on the agenda was the
subject of ion spectrometers. A news posting about this meeting
and this issue is now on the FedCure website.
Id. Emphasis added.
G. DOJ’s Upholding the Fee Waiver Denial.
On June 29, 2006, the DOJ upheld the BOP denial of the fee waiver.3 (Exhibit G: June
29, 2006, Letter from Daniel J. Metcalfe, Director, Office of Information and Privacy, DOJ).
The basis for the DOJ decision was that FedCURE had not satisfied factors two, three and four of
the statutory public interest requirement.

3

In a November 17, 2005, letter to Mr. Linn, the DOJ acknowledged receipt of the fee
waiver appeal on November 9, 2005. The letter also informed Mr. Linn of the DOJ backlog of
appeals, assigned the appeal a number and stated that it would decide the appeal as soon as
possible. (Exhibit F: November 17, 2005, Letter from Priscilla Jones, Chief, Administrative
Staff, DOJ, to Mr. Linn).
-7-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 8 of 36

First, the Agency found that the April 20, 2005, fee request waiver did not “adequately
address the [FOIA] public interest requirement .... (encompassing the first four fee waiver
factors).4 Ex. G at 2. DOJ claimed that FedCURE merely “paraphrased the statutory standard”
and six waiver factors. Id.
Second, the DOJ claimed that FedCURE failed to show that it would adequately
disseminate the information to the public and therefore failed factor three. Id.
Third, DOJ pointed to the large volume of information and technical nature of the
material. DOJ asserted that FedCURE had not specified that it would “extract, analyze,
synthesize and effectively convey” that information to the public. Id.
Fourth, the DOJ asserted that FedCURE did not fit the definitions of news media
representative or a noncommercial scientific institution. Id. at 3. DOJ found that making
information available on a website was insufficient to place the requester in a favored fee
category. Id.
Fifth, DOJ claimed that the information on FedCURE’s website was not news because is
was not “current.” Id.
Lastly, DOJ determined that FedCURE’s website did not fall within scientific
organizations that conducted research in the “soft sciences,” such as social studies. Id. at 4.
H. FedCURE’s Request for Reconsideration.
Subsequently, on July 10, 2006, FedCURE requested that DOJ reconsider its appeal
denial in light of the then just-decided Prison Legal News v. Lappin, 436 F.Supp.2d 17 (D.D.C.

4

FedCURE will not respond to these claims in this Statement of Facts and Procedural
Background. Rather, FedCURE will save its rebuttal for the Argument section of this
opposition.
-8-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 9 of 36

2006). (Exhibit H: July 10, 2006, Letter from Mr. Linn to Mr. Metcalfe). FedCURE pointed out
that Prison Legal News dealt with the sufficiency of news dissemination and relied upon Linn v.
DOJ, 1997 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 9321 (May 29, 1997). Id.
The reconsideration request also explained that:
In FedCure’s request for information, we specifically advised that
FedCure has a website and a chat site at Yahoo groups. We stated
“its chat site at Yahoo Groups has as many as 1000 requests for
information each day.” The appeal response does not address
FedCure’s Yahoo Groups site whatsoever, which is where our
daily information is disseminated and goes on to say that there is
“no evidence ... of FedCure’s intention to extract, analyze,
synthesize, and effectively convey the information received to the
public,” ... even though that is exactly what we do every day when
we answer those requests.
The appeal response make no distinction whether a web-based
organization is large or small, old or new, sophisticated or
rudimentary. If this type of decision is allowed to stand, it would
be virtually impossible for a small, new, unsophisticated webbased organization to ever receive a fee waiver from the
government for requested information from one of its agencies.
Id. (Italics emphasis is in the original).
I. DOJ’s Response to the Reconsideration Request.
DOJ upheld its denial, finding that FedCURE’s failure to provide printed material, i.e., a
newsletter mailed out to subscribers or the public distinguished it from the plaintiff in Prison
Legal News. DOJ also rejected the Yahoo chat room as a means of sufficient dissemination to
the public. (Exhibit I: November 8, 2006, Letter from Mr. Metcalfe to Mr. Linn).
J. FedCURE’s Filing for Judicial Review.
On May 7, 2007, FedCURE filed a Complaint in this Court, claiming that BOP’s waiver
denial was improper. FedCURE requested a declaratory judgment that BOP’s denial of the fee
-9-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 10 of 36

waiver was unlawful, an injunction ordering BOP to grant the fee waiver and produce the
requested material without charge and reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.
In light of the Argument below, this Court should deny Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment and find that FedCURE is qualified for a fee waiver for all costs.
II. LEGAL STANDARDS.
A. Summary Judgment Standard.
Summary judgment is appropriate only when the record shows that there is not genuine
issue of material fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
Fed.RCiv.P. 56(c). The moving party bears the initial burden of demonstrating the absence of
any genuine issues of material fact. Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 323 (1986). A
genuine issue is one that, if resolved, establishes a claim or defense, affecting the action’s
outcome. Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242 (1986).
Defendant relies upon the Moorer Declaration to support a summary judgment that denial
of FedCURE’s fee waiver request was valid as a matter of law. As the next section establishes,
and the Defendant acknowledged (Lappin Memorandum at 10-11), while judicial review is de
novo, the Court is limited to the record before the agency. In Landmark Legal Foundation v.
IRS, 1998 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 21722 at 7* (T.C. Sept. 22, 1998), the Tax Court discussed the
scope of judicial review:
The IRS’s decision to deny a fee waiver to Landmark is subject to
de novo review by this court. However, this review is limited to
the record that was before the IRS at the time of its decision. ...
Consequently, the court will consider only the correspondence
between Landmark and the IRS between January 28, 1997, when
Landmark made its FOIA request, and July 17, 1997, when the IRS
denied that request. Information, theories, and evidence newly
-10-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 11 of 36

introduced by the parties in their summary judgment papers
cannot be considered. ...
(Citations omitted). (Italics in original). (Emphasis added).
Moreover, in D.C. Technical Assistance Org., Inc. v. U.S. Dep’t of Housing and Urban
Development, 85 F.Supp.2d 46, 47 (D.D.C. 2000), a case which Defendant cites, the court noted
the limitation of the de novo review to the agency record. As a result, the court stated:
The additional supporting documents submitted with plaintiffs’
motion for summary judgment were not considered in the
disposition of this case.
The Moorer Declaration, dated June 22, 2007, after FedCURE filed its Complaint on May
7, 2007, is not part of the administrative record. Therefore, the Court cannot receive the
Declaration into evidence and is irrelevant.5
B. De Novo Review of the Agency Decision.
Under FOIA, the Court need not defer to BOP’s denial of the fee waiver and
determination that FedCURE is not a “representative of the news media” or a “noncommercial
scientific institution.”
Rather, FOIA permits the Court to determine the matter de novo, albeit the Court must
base its review only on the agency record. 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(A)(vii); Prison Legal News v.
Lappin, 436 F.Supp.2d 17, 22 (D.D.C. 2006). Thus, the Court can reach its own factual and legal
conclusions from the agency record before it.
The agency record consists of the correspondence between FedCURE, BOP and DOJ, as
discussed in the Statement of Facts, above. The Exhibits to this Opposition are in chronological

5

Moreover, a reading of the Declaration shows that it merely restates what is contained
in the correspondence between FedCURE, BOP and DOJ.
-11-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 12 of 36

order as well, so the sequence of request and response between FedCURE, BOP and DOJ can be
followed that way as well.
Under the FOIA de novo review standard, this Court can examine and construe these
documents without regard to the BOP’s consideration of them. The Court can, independent of
the Agency, determine that genuine issues of material fact exist concerning FedCURE’s
eligibility for a fee waiver or rule that FedCURE is eligible for the waiver.
C. FOIA Requirements for a Fee Waiver.
Under FOIA, a requester must meet a two-prong statutory test for waiver of fees for the
costs of producing documents. These two tests are: (1) disclosure of the information is in the
public interest, and (2) is not primarily in the requester’s commercial interest. 5 U.S.C. §
552(a)(4)(A)(iii).6
In addition to the above two-prong test, the Department of Justice has promulgated
regulations prescribing six factors that the requester must meet for the fee waiver. 28 C.F.R. §§
16.11 (a)-(k) (2007). The first four factors fall under the public-interest prong and the last two
under the commercial-free prong.
1. Public Interest Prong Factors:
a. Subject of the request. The requested materials must concern
“operations of activities of the government,” which have a
connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated.

6

The statute reads:
[d]ocuments shall be furnished without charge ... if disclosure of
the information is in the public interest because it is likely to
contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or
activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial
interest of the requester.
-12-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 13 of 36

b. Informative value of the information to be disclosed. The
information must be “likely to contribute” to an understanding of
government operations or activities. The disclosed material must
be meaningfully informative about these operations or activities.
c. A contribution to the public’s understanding of the subject
is likely to result from disclosure.
i. Disclosure of the material will contribute to
public understanding of the subject.
ii. Disclosure will contribute to a “reasonably
broad” audience interested in the subject, not just
the requester’s individual understanding.
iii. There is a consideration of the requester’s
expertise in the subject and intention to effectively
disseminate the information to the public.
iv. There is a presumption that a representative of
the news media satisfies the above consideration.
d. The significance of the contribution to the public
understanding. The disclosure will likely contribute
“significantly” to the public understanding of the government
operation or activities. Moreover, the disclosure will enhance the
public’s understanding compared to the understanding prior to the
disclosure.
The Agency cannot make a subjective determination of whether the information is
sufficiently important to be made public. Ettlinger v. FBI, 596 F.Supp. 867, 877 (D.Mass.
1984).
2. Absence of Commercial Interest Prong:
If the requester satisfies the public interest prong, he or she must show that the soughtafter information is not primarily in his or her commercial interest. 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(4)(A)(iii).

-13-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 14 of 36

This test consists of two conditions. First, the agency must ascertain if the disclosure would
serve any commercial interest of the requester. Second, the agency must weigh any commercial
interest against the public interest in disclosing the information. The agency must grant the fee
waiver if the public interest outweighs the requester’s commercial interest in the information.
Larson v. CIA, 843 F.2d 1481, 1483 (D.C. Cir. 1988).
The regulations define commercial use as:
... a request from or on behalf of a person who seeks information
for a use or purpose that furthers his or her commercial, trade, or
profit interests .... Components shall determine, whenever
reasonably possible, the use to which a requester will put the
requested records. ...
28 C.F.R. § 16.11(b)(1).
Educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions and representatives of the
news media are not subject to fees. Id. at § 16.11(c)(1)(i). The regulations define these entities.
Id. at § 16.11(b)(4)-(6).7

7

The news media definition reads, in pertinent part:
(6) Representative of the news media, or new media requester, means any
person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to
publish or broadcast news to the public. The term “news” means
information that is about current events or that would be of current interest
to the public. ... To be in this category, a requester must not be seeking the
requested records for a commercial use. However, a request for records
supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be
considered to be for a commercial use.

The noncommercial scientific institution definition reads, in pertinent part:
... an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis ... and that is
operated solely for the purposes of conducting scientific research the results
of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
-14-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 15 of 36

BOP concedes that FedCURE is not a commercial entity and that disclosure of the ion
spectrometry information is not for a commercial interest. (Exhibit G.)
III. ARGUMENT.
A. The Record Establishes that FedCURE Meets
the Public Interest Requirement Under the FOIA Statute
and Regulations and Qualifies for a Fee Waiver.
FedCURE meets all the criteria for a fee waiver. FedCURE satisfies the public interest
prong because the requested documents relate to government operations in the federal prisons
and FedCURE’s submissions to BOP show how disclosure will significantly contribute to the
public’s understanding of the government, in this case, use of ion spectrometry on visitors to
federal prison inmates.
1. FedCURE Did Not Rely Solely Upon Its Non-Profit Status,
Small Budget or Staff and Directors Serving Without Pay
to Justify a Fee Waiver.
Defendant contends that FedCURE requested a fee waiver based solely on three factors
— its non-profit status, small budget and non-compensated staff and directors. (Lappin
Memorandum at 17-18). This allegation is without support. FedCURE’s fee waiver application,
appeal and request for reconsideration address the public interest and commercial-free tests and
six factors contained in the regulations. Therefore, the authorities that Defendant’s cites
concerning indigence are irrelevant.
Defendant also asserts that an entity’s non-profit or public interest status does not relieve
it from meeting the statutory test for a fee waiver. FedCURE never advanced this argument
when seeking the fee waiver.

-15-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 16 of 36

Moreover, Defendant ignores authority acknowledging the suitableness of a fee waiver
for public interest organizations. In Institute for Wildlife Protection v. United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, 290 F.Supp.2d 1226, 1232 (D.Or. 2003), the court explained:
... I note that strong policy considerations support a fee waiver in
this case. The legislative history discussed in McClellan
[Ecological Seepage Situation v. Carlucci, 835 F.2d 182 (9th Cir.
1987)]; National Security Archive v. U.S. Dep’t of Defense, 88
F.2d 1381 (D.C. Cir. 1989), cert. denied, 494 U.S. 1029 (1990),
and other cases demonstrates that Congress intended independent
researchers, journalists, and public interest watchdog groups to
have inexpensive access to government records in order to provide
the type of public disclosure believed essential to our society.
Moreover, in the 1986 amendments to FOIA, Congress ensured
that when such requesters demonstrated a minimal showing of
their legitimate intention to use the requested information in a way
that contributes to public understanding of the operations of
government agencies, no fee attaches to their request.
(Emphasis added).
2. FedCURE’s Fee Waiver Application, Appeal and Request
for Reconsideration Addressed the Overall Public Interest
Requirement with Sufficient Specificity.
Defendant claims that FedCURE did not sufficiently address the FOIA public interest
requirements, statutory and regulatory. Specifically, Defendant states that FedCURE provided
only:
(1) statements of FedCure’s organizational mission and bona fides,
(2) paraphrases of the relevant statutory and regulatory language,
(3) expressions of general interest in the material sought, and
(4) vague and conclusory language.

-16-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 17 of 36

(Lappin Memorandum at 19). Defendant’s assertions, however, do not support a finding, as a
matter of law, that FedCURE did not fulfill the specificity necessary to meet the public interest
test.8
a. FedCURE’s Organizational Mission and Bona Fides.
As explained above, the Defendant claims that this information constitutes one of the
reasons why FedCURE failed to specifically describe the public interest. Defendant’s inclusion
of this factor in its lack of public interest specificity argument is baffling.
As FedCURE explained, it is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. It is also the largest
private organization dealing with federal inmate issues. (Exhibit E: the FedCURE Nov. 1, 2005,
letter).
FedCURE also explained that it is the world’s leading expert in matters concerning
federal inmates and has on its board 14 members with “over 50 years of prison experience —
behind the fence — as former federal inmates....” (Exhibit C: the FedCURE April 20, 2005,
letter).
FedCURE’s description of itself was necessary to establish the organization’s public
interest agenda and federal inmate expertise. Otherwise, the BOP could have denied the waiver
on the grounds that FedCURE had a commercial interest in the information and/or did not have
any experience with federal prison “safety” measures.
This information, contrary to Defendant’s assertions, adds specifics necessary to meet the
public interest component.

8

Defendant discusses the fact that the requester has the burden of establishing that it
meets the public interest requirement. (Lappin Memorandum at 21-22). FedCURE does not
dispute this rule. FedCURE’s position is that it does meet this burden.
-17-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 18 of 36

b. Paraphrases of the Relevant Statutory and Regulatory Language.
Defendant claims that FedCURE’s fee waiver request merely paraphrases the statute’s
two-pronged test and the regulations’ six factors. When viewed together, however, the fee
waiver application, appeal and reconsideration request adequately explain how FedCURE
satisfies the statutory and regulatory requirements.
FedCURE provides specific information concerning the four factors under the public
interest prong.
a. Subject of the request. The information concerns the ion
spectrometry tests that federal prison authorities use on individuals
visiting federal inmates. The test constitutes a government
operation or activity, which has a direct and clear connection.
b. Informative value of the information. The information is of
interest to the public by contributing to its understanding of
government use of and spending on the ion spectrometry test.
Federal inmates and their visitors to federal inmates will be
especially interested.9 Moreover, as FedCURE explained, as of
November 1, 2005, it had received hundreds of questions and
complaints about the ion spectrometer.
c. Contribution to the public’s understanding of the subject
resulting from the disclosure. As discussed in b., the disclosure
of information about the ion spectrometer will contribute to the
public’s understanding of the process. The audience is reasonably
broad, even if limited to federal inmates and their visitors.
FedCURE specifically described its expertise in federal inmate
matters. Lastly, FedCURE manifested its interest in effectively
disseminating the information to the public through its newsletter,

9

Defendant cannot argue that if, theoretically, the only “public” interested in the ion
spectrometry information would be federal inmates and their visitors this public sector would be
too small. In Linn v. Dep’t of Justice, 1997 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 9321, *19 (D.D.C. May 29, 1997),
this Court reiterated its rejecting the BOP’s argument that dissemination of information to the
“incarcerated public” was only a “narrow segment” of the population and would therefore not
contribute to public understanding.
-18-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 19 of 36

website and chat room on Yahoo Groups. As FedCURE will
discuss below, it meets the news media representative category.
d. Significance of the contribution to public understanding.
The information about the ion spectrometer test, as FedCURE
stated in its fee waiver materials, does not exist in an domain
accessible to the public. Therefore, FedCURE’s releasing this
information in form understandable by a layperson will enhance
public knowledge.
Thus, Defendant’s claim that FedCURE merely paraphrased the statutory and regulatory
public interest requirements is invalid.
c. Statement of Interest in the Material Sought.
As this Court explained in Prison Legal News, 426 F.Supp.2d at 21:
The requester of a fee waiver bears the initial burden of identifying,
with reasonable specificity, the public interest to be served ....
In that case, the plaintiff, Prison Legal News, was a non-profit legal journal devoted to
reporting news and litigation concerning prisons. It requested that BOP provide it with:
... “all documents showing all money paid by the [BOP] for
lawsuits and claims against it” between January 1, 1996 and
July 31, 2003.
Id. at 19.
The requested material included copies of each “verdict, settlement or claim in each case
showing the dollar amount paid, the identity of the plaintiff/claimant and the legal identifying
information for each lawsuit or claim or attorney fee award” and “... the complaint ... or the claim
... in each incident which describes the facts underlying each lawsuit and claim.” Id.
Prison Legal News also requested a fee waiver for processing the request and duplication
of the documents. Id.

-19-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 20 of 36

One of the issues was whether Prison Legal News had addressed the public interest
requirement with sufficient specificity. The court examined two decisions addressing this
question: Judicial Watch v. Rossotti, 326 F.2d 1309 (D.C. Cir. 2003), and Judicial Watch v.
Dep’t of Justice (Judicial Watch I),133 F.Supp.2d 52 (D.D.C. 2000).
In Rossotti, the organization sought “reports, investigations, decisions, waivers and
findings of fact concerning conflicts-of-interest by ... IRS Commissioner Charles O. Rossotti.”
436 F.Supp.2d at 22.
The Rossotti plaintiff, Judicial Watch, explained that:
the public is always well served when it knows how government
activities, particularly matters touching on legal and technical
questions, have been conducted and the information requested will
be meaningfully informative in increasing public understanding of
the IRS commissioner’s involvement and interest in lucrative
government contracts.
Id.
The District of Columbia Circuit found in Rossotti that the organization “specifically
explain[ed] the public interest to be served.” Id.
In contrast, Judicial Watch in Judicial Watch I, requested:
material related ... to the [d]ecision(s) by Attorney General Janet
Reno, the Department of Justice, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service ... to return Elian Gonzales to the custody of
his biological father in Cuba.
Id. 22-23.
The asserted public interest was that the information:
would promote accountable government and benefit the public by
identifying areas for future reform as well as deterring future
abuses that could otherwise proliferate without scrutiny.
-20-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 21 of 36

Id. at 23.
The Judicial Watch I court found that this explanation was “perfunctory” and “too
ephemeral to satisfy the reasonable specificity standard.” Id.
In determining that Prison Legal News had met the specificity standard, this Court
explained that:
As in Rossitti, the PLN request specifically explains both the
records sought and how the public will benefit from the
information contained in those records. ... Moreover, in contrast to
Judicial Watch I, PLN does not assert that information related to a
single isolated event will benefit the public in the general sense of
“promoting accountable government.” Rather, the [Prison Legal
News] PLN request seeks information regarding specific events
that occurred within BOP facilities that will provide insight to the
public about how its federal prisons are being managed and
operated, and how its tax dollars are being expended.
Id. at 23-24.
The Court noted two ways that Prison Legal News explained how the information would
“provide insight into how the requested information would benefit the public.” Id. at 24.
1. Damage verdicts and settlements are an important means of
measuring respect for constitutional rights within penal facilities.
2. Litigation against government agencies is an important
barometer of how well managed, or badly run as the case may be,
the agency may be as well as illustrating trends and patterns of
abuse or other forms of mismanagement.
Id. at 24.
FedCURE provided the same specificity in its letters requesting a waiver. First, as did
Prison Legal News, FedCURE sought information on specific events in the federal prison
system:

-21-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 22 of 36

1. all information about the accuracy of the ion spectrometer
scanning method and the number of visitors turned away at all
BOP facilities (by facility) because of the results of the scanning
method since institution of its use;
2. all information relating to the training methods used for
personnel operating his equipment and staff comments as to these
training methods; and
3. all records of equipment failures and repairs.
(Exhibit A: FedCURE’s [Feb 25, 2005, letter.)
FedCURE also explained that it had “received numerous requests from the public” for the
above information about the ion spectrometer. (Exhibit C). FedCURE also stated that this
information would be valuable to “those who regularly visit incarcerated federal inmates.” Id. In
its appeal of the fee waiver denial, FedCURE further pointed out that:
In particular, FedCure has received hundreds of questions and
complaints about ion spectrometer procedures and the reasoning
behind their use.
(Exhibit E).
d. The Purported Vague and Conclusory Language.
To support its claim that FedCURE used “vague and conclusory” language in explaining
its entitlement to a fee waiver, Defendant cited Oglesby v. Dep’t of the Army, 920 F.2d 57 (D.C.
Cir. 1990).
Defendant, however, mischaracterizes this decision. Oglesby did not rule on sufficiency
of the requester’s justification for a waiver.
Rather, the case involved failure to exhaust administrative remedies. The court never
ruled on whether the requester was entitled to a fee waiver. Id. at 71.

-22-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 23 of 36

Oglesby actually supports FedCURE’s fee waiver request. In a footnote, the court
addressed the requester’s explanation of why the information would serve the public interest.
The information requested is beneficial to the public interest. I am
a writer and lecturer who has disseminated such information in the
past, and I intend to do so in the future.
Id. at 66, fn. 11.
The court also noted that the requester sent a second fee waiver request:
explaining the public interest nature of the information and the
specific journals in which he had previously published and which
could be future forums for his work.
Id.
The court noted that the National Security Agency “accepted the showing as adequate to
justify waiver of fees.” Id.
Oglesby specifically stated that it would not rule on the fee waiver issue.
Because appellant did not exhaust his administrative remedies with
respect to the Army's denial of his fee waiver request, we will not
decide the merits of appellant's claim that his fee waiver was
unreasonably denied.
Defendant’s reliance on Oglesby to support its assertion that FedCURE’s language in its
fee waiver request is vague and conclusory is misplaced. Rather, the explanation FedCURE
provided resembles that from the requester in Oglesby, in which one agency found sufficient for
the public interest justification.

-23-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 24 of 36

B. FedCURE Satisfies Regulatory Fee Waiver Factors Two, Three and Four
Because It Established that Disclosure of the Ion Spectrometry Information
Will Significantly Contribute to an Increased and Meaningful
Understanding by a Reasonably Broad Public.10
1. FedCURE Factor Satisfies Factor Two Because It Has
Demonstrated that Disclosure of the Ion Spectrometer Material
Will Be “Meaningfully” Informative and Contribute to
Increased Public Understanding.
Defendant claims that FedCURE cannot under satisfy factor two because it lacks the
ability or intention to disseminate the information to the general public. Defendant discusses its
conclusion in its analysis of factor three. (Lappin Memorandum at 23). FedCURE will address
this issue there.
Defendant provides other ground for determining that FedCURE had not met factor two,
explaining that the information is “technical” and BOP did not find any evidence of “FedCure’s
intention to extract, analyze, synthesize and effectively convey the information received to the
public.” Id. at 24. From these observations, BOP inferred that:
(1) [FedCURE] would only be able to share the information it
sought with a small pool of people, and
(2) in view of the technical nature of this information and
[FedCURE’s] intention to present it in undigested form, that only a
small subset of these individuals would understand the date being
shared.
Id. These conclusions are erroneous.

10

Defendant concedes that FedCURE satisfies regulatory factor I — the information
about the ion spectrometer concerns “identifiable operations and activities of the federal
government that is direct and clear, not remote and attenuated.” (Lappin Memorandum at 2223).
-24-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 25 of 36

First, Defendant does not cite to any language in the FedCURE fee waiver materials that
FedCURE did not intend to “extract, analyze, synthesize and effectively convey” the information.
Rather, FedCURE directly contradicted this claim in its “Reconsideration of Appeal
Denial.” FedCURE stated that:
The appeal response does not address FedCure’s Yahoo Groups
[chat] site whatsoever, which is where our daily information is
disseminated and goes on to say that there is “no evidence ... of
FedCure’s intention to extract, analyze, synthesize and effectively
convey the information received to the public” (Appeal Response,
pg. 3), even though that is exactly what we do every day when
we answer those requests.
(Exhibit H: FedCURE letter July 10, 2006. Emphasis added here.)
Given the above, the Defendant’s rationale for concluding that the information, because
of its technical nature, would reach only a “small subset” of individuals is incorrect.
FedCURE’s explanation is like that of the environmental organization in Institute for
Wildlife Protection v. United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 290 F.Supp.2d at 1226. In that
case, the court pointed to the organization’s explanation that it would digest and analyze the
material it sought — petitions to the defendants (who also included the Department of the
Interior) requesting that they list certain species or sub-species as endangered.
The petitions addressed two technical tests to determine endangered species — GIS, a
form of computerized mapping, and GAP analysis, an evaluation of the “gap” between protected
habitats and needs of the species. Id. at 1227, 1231-32.
Moreover, Defendant cannot rely upon its excuse that the information would reach only a
small subset of people. First, Defendant does not provide any documentation of the number of

-25-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 26 of 36

individuals who would read about and benefit from the ion spectrometry information.
Defendant’s characterization of this group as “small” is wholly speculative.
Second, case law does not support the “small audience” defense. In Carney v. Dep’t of
Justice, 19 F.3d 807 (2nd Cir. 1994), a scholar requested information about the role of the
Department of Justice in selection of federal judges. Id. at 809. The scholar requested a fee
waiver, which the government denied. One of the reasons for the denial was that the requester
had not provided sufficient evidence that “dissemination of any dissertation, book, or article he
wrote would be broad enough to justify a waiver.” Id. at 811.
The Second Circuit disagreed with this reasoning.
Information need not actually reach a broad cross-section of the
public in order to benefit the public at large. For instance, the DOJ
suggests that, because Carney's dissertation and proposed articles
and book on the role of the DOJ in the judicial selection process
are scholarly in nature, they will not reach a general audience and
hence will not benefit the public at large. Such work by its nature
usually will not reach a general audience, but, by enlightening
interested scholars, it often is of great benefit to the public at large.
To suggest otherwise is to ignore the important role of academe in
our democracy. The relevant inquiry, as we see it, is whether the
requester will disseminate the disclosed records to a reasonably
broad audience of persons interested in the subject.
From the information he submitted to the DOJ, we are satisfied
that Carney will disseminate the disclosed records to a sufficiently
broad audience of students and academics interested in his work. ...
Moreover, Carney submitted evidence that he is a serious scholar,
qualified to perform research on this subject. Thus, we are satisfied
that Carney's work is likely to be considered by other scholars.
While it is true that Carney's book is only tentative, the fact that he
is working on a related dissertation is sufficient evidence, for
purposes of the public interest fee waiver, to conclude that his
book will be completed. Thus, we reject the DOJ's contention that
Carney was required to prove that his articles and book would be published.
Id. at 814-15.
-26-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 27 of 36

Subsequently, in Judicial Watch, Inc. v. Dep’t of Justice, 365 F.3d 1108, 1126 (D.C. Cir.
2004), the District of Columbia Circuit, citing Carney, ruled that:
... proof of the ability to disseminate the released information to a
broad cross-section of the public is not required.
Lastly, as FedCURE has previously pointed out above in footnote 9, Linn v. Dep’t of
Justice found that the prison population was a sufficient audience to meet the contribution to the
public understanding requirement.
Defendant is therefore wrong in concluding that the audience FedCURE will reach in
disseminating the ion spectrometry information is too small.
2. FedCURE satisfies Factor Three Because It Will
Effectively Convey the Ion Spectrometry Information
to a “Reasonably Broad”Audience.11
FedCURE demonstrated, in its fee waiver materials, that it has the ability and intention to
effectively disseminate the information to the public. These means of dissemination are
FedCURE’s:
1. Online website that has been up for about two years, provides
regular daily news updates, and had over 250,000 as of 2005,
2. Online newsletter, and
3. Chat room on Yahoo Groups that receives as many as 100
requests for information each day.
(Exhibits C, E, and H: FedCURE letters of April 20, 2005, Nov. 1, 2005, and July 10, 2006).

11

In as far as any of this argument requires a showing of a “broad audience,” FedCURE
relies upon its argument in the immediately preceding section that its audience is sufficiently
large.
-27-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 28 of 36

Defendant argues that these means of dissemination are inadequate because: (1) the
newsletter exists only on the FedCURE website; (2) FedCURE does not regularly publish the
newsletter; and (3) the newsletter is available only to those who visit the website. (Lappin
Memorandum at 25-26). Defendant further argues that FedCURE does not “provide” the public
with any material, but “passively” makes the material available on its website. Id. at 26. This
comment implies that FedCURE does not mail a printed newsletter to subscribers.
Defendant repeats its argument that the ion spectrometer information is technical and that
FedCURE has not stated an intention to digest this material for its public. Id. at 27. FedCURE
has previously countered this claim and shown that it is untrue.
Defendant then claims that FedCURE falls within the ruling that “[s]imply maintaining a
website is not disseminating information to a broad audience of interested individuals.” Brown
v. United States Patent and Trademark Office, 445 F.Supp.2d 1347, 1360 (M.D. Fla. 2006), aff’d
in 2007 W.L. 446601 (11th Cir. 2007)(unpublished).
Brown, however, does not apply to this case. In Brown, the requester was a private
individual who maintained his own website concerning lawsuits against the Patent Office. As
the court explained, the requester did not:
... present evidence that he was employed by a news organization
such as a television station or newspaper or magazine publisher.
Rather, Plaintiff contends that the creation of his website, where he
posts "information about the operations and activities of the
USPTO," qualifies him as a representative of the news media.
Id. at 1356.
Unlike the Brown plaintiff, FedCURE has not claimed news representative status based
solely on its creating its website.
-28-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 29 of 36

Defendant claims that a requester must employ a wide range of communication methods
to adequately disseminate information to the public. (Lappin Memorandum at 26). However, in
the decisions that Defendant cites, the Courts merely described the means of communication.
The Courts did not rule that all these methods were necessary. Judicial Watch v. Rossotti, 326
F.3d 1309 (D.C. Cir. 2003); Judicial Watch v. Dep’t of Justice, 185 F.Supp.2d 54 (D.D.C. 2002).
Defendant also points to large circulation numbers as another indication of sufficient
dissemination. (Lappin Memorandum at 26-27.) The reasoning is flawed because, as FedCURE
has already established above, the Courts do not require a multitude of readers to satisfy the
reasonably broad audience requirement.
As Defendant points out, part of the reason for denying FedCURE’s fee waiver was that
the organization was not sending out any printed material, but relied upon what it posted on its
website. The Agency described this electronic means of communication as “passively making
formation available to anyone who might seek access to the Internet.” (Lappin Memorandum at
26.)
This observation ignores this Court’s acknowledgment in Electronic Privacy Information
Center v. Dep’t of Defense, 241 F.Supp.2d 5, 14 (D.D.C. 2003), of the effect of technological
changes upon news dissemination.
The fact that EPIC’s newsletter is disseminated via the Internet to
subscribers’ e-mail addresses does not change the analysis. DOD’s
regulation states that the examples of news medica cited “are not
meant to be all-inclusive.” ... More importantly, the regulation
anticipates technological advancements, recognizing that “as
traditional methods of news delivery evolve (e.g., electronic
dissemination of newspapers through telecommunications
services), such alternative media would be included in (the news
media) category.
-29-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 30 of 36

In light of Electronic Privacy, above, Defendant’s attempt to distinguish Prison Legal
News, 436 F.Supp.2d at 17, from the instant case is fruitless. Defendant interprets Prison Legal
News as rejecting that organization’s website as a viable mechanism for distributing the
information sought from BOP. (Lappin Memorandum at 28-29). As a result, in refusing to
follow Prison Legal News and grant FedCURE a fee waiver, the Agency focused solely on the
printed newsletter that Prison Legal News sent out. Id. at 29.
The Defendant again relies upon the passivity argument, stating:
[FedCURE] ... does not provide the public with any printed
material, relies solely on passively making information available to
anyone who might seek access to it online on its website and its
Yahoo chat room, publishes its newsletter only on its website and
on an infrequent basis, has provided no estimate of the size of its
readership or the number of subscribers to its newsletter.
Id.
This interpretation is erroneous. The Court in Prison Legal News did not accept BOP’s
disregard of the website. Rather, the Court found:
The question before the Court, therefore, is whether PLN has the
ability to disseminate the information. The government primarily
argues that the finding by the OIP that the PLN website is not a
viable distribution channel shows that PLN failed to demonstrate
its dissemination ability. Court does not agree, Regardless of the
viability of the PLN website as a mechanism for distributing the
requesting information, with 3,400 reported subscriber and an
estimated readership population of 18,000, PLN has demonstrated
its ability to distribute the printed journal to the public.
436 F.Supp.2d at 26-27.
Thus, Court left open the question about the viability of the website as a dissemination
mechanism.

-30-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 31 of 36

Defendant then discusses FedCURE’s Yahoo chat room site, arguing that there are only a
“small number” of messages. (Lappin Memorandum at 29-30). This characterization is
misleading, as a copy of the chat room “Message History” from 2002 to 2008 proves. (Exhibit
J).12 There are a sufficient number of messages each month to satisfy the dissemination
requirement.
Lastly, Defendant distinguishes Linn v. Dep’t of Justice, 1997 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 9321
(D.D.C. May 29, 1997) on the basis that the defendant, as here, BOP, did not challenge
FedCURE’s ability to disseminate the requested information while here, BOP does. (Lappin
Memorandum at 30). This reasoning is ludicrous. Defendant cannot rescind its earlier finding
that FedCURE would adequately disseminate requested material, especially when the court relied
upon BOP’s determination.
Plaintiff [Linn] asserts that “there are federal inmate lobbying
organizations (... CURE ...)13 who have expressed an interest in
BOP policy statements in general and the response to Plaintiff’s
FOIA requests in particular. Their member mailings number in the
thousands each month and they have both an interest and the ability
to further disseminate the information. ... Therefore, based on
Plaintiff’s representations that he will supply the information he
has received to organizations which can widely disseminate it to
the relevant public, and because this record gives the Court no
reason to doubt the truth of such representations, the Court finds
that the Plaintiff’s fee waiver must be granted.
Linn v. Dep’t of Justice, 1997 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 9321, *20.

12

FedCURE acknowledges that judicial review is limited to the record before the agency.
However, because Defendant introduced the chat room message numbers and cites to the chat
room URL, http://groups.yahoo.com/group/FedCure-org., FedCURE urges this Court to examine
this exhibit.
13

FedCURE is the federal prison chapter of CURE. (Exhibit A FedCURE letter of Feb.

25, 2005).
-31-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 32 of 36

Given Linn, this Court cannot uphold Defendant’s about-face on FedCURE’s ability to
disseminate the requested information.
FedCURE satisfies factor three requiring a requester’s ability and intention to effectively
convey or disseminate the information to a reasonably broad audience of individuals interested in
the subject. FedCURE has established that this information is not limited to the individual
understanding of the requester.
3. FedCURE Satisfies Factor Four Because It
Showed that Disclosure of the Requested Information
Will Significantly Increase Public Understanding.
In support of this assertion, Defendant merely repeats its arguments that the information
sought is technical and FedCURE did not adequately explain its intention to digest the material.
Defendant again claims that the material will reach only a “small subset” of individuals.
FedCURE relies upon its previous argument rebutting this position.
C. FedCURE Established that It Is a Member of the News Media
and/or a Noncommercial Scientific Institution.
1. FedCURE as News Media Representative.14
National Security Archive v. Dep’t of Defense. 880 F.2d 1381 (D.C. Cir. 1989), supports
finding that FedCURE qualifies as a representative of the news media. In that case, the court
found that the National Security Archive came within the category of an organization that
regularly publishes or disseminates information to the public. Id. at 1386.
The Defendant argues against categorizing FedCURE as a new media representative in
large part because FedCURE does not regularly publish or update its newsletter. (Lappin

14

A member of the news media is entitled to a partial fee waiver. 5 U.S.C. §
552(a)(4)(A)(ii)(II) (2007).
-32-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 33 of 36

Memorandum at 34-35). National Security Archive refutes this contention because the court did
not base its finding on regular publication of a newsletter. As the court explained:
The Archive has previously published only one book ... , but it has
expressed a firm intention, which DoD does not here question, to
publish a number of what it refers to as “document sets.” Each of
the document sets it had planned at the time of the administrative
proceedings will be devoted to a particular topic of current interest,
including current United States policies toward various countries
and regions, aspects of nuclear weapons policy, relations between
the superpowers, the structure of major alliances and of the nonaligned movement.
Id. at 1386.
The Archive, therefore, was going to publish the actual documents rather than rewriting,
analyzing or synthesizing them. The court described the editorial process:
From these documents, the Archive’s staff will cull those of
particular interest in a given subject area to form the core of each
document set. The staff will then supplement the chose documents
with “detailed cross-reference indices, other finding aids, and a
sophisticated computerized retrieval system retrieval system in
order to make it more accessible to potential users.
Id.
The court concluded that the above publishing plan and editorial activities as:
... well within the range that Congress ascribed to a representative
of the news media.
Id.
The court provided another example.
A representative of the news media is, in essence, a person or
entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of
the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a
distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. Surely
when a newspaper publisher, such as the New York Times
Company, brings out The Pentagon Papers in the form of a
-33-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 34 of 36

paperback book, adding perhaps an introduction and an index, it is
acting as a representative of the news media every bit as when it
publishes a daily newspaper, and as we have seen that is the same
sort of venture as, indeed one involving less editorial inut than, the
one n which the Archive is engaged.
Id. at 1387.
National Security Archive squarely controls this case. First, the lack of a regularly
published newsletter does not disqualify FedCURE from the news media representative category.
National Security Archive had published only one book when it requested the fee waiver. Yet
the court found the Archive deserved a fee waiver, based on its plan to publish the document set.
FedCURE has published a newsletter and maintains a chat room where it updates information
about the federal prison system. This past publishing history and the stated intention to provide
the ion spectrometry information to the public put FedCURE well within the National Security
Archive ruling.
Second, the court in National Security Archive found that the editorial activity of the
Archive with the requested documents and that of the New York Times concerning the Pentagon
Papers were sufficient. FedCURE has stated an intention to go beyond those what were basic
organizational efforts and analyze and synthesize the ion spectrometry information.15
Lastly, Defendant claims that an advocacy organization does not fit within the news
media representative category. (Lappin Memorandum at 34). Electronic Privacy Information
Center v. Dep’t of Defense, 241 F.Supp.2d at 5, refutes this declaration. As the Court there
ruled:

15

This analysis of National Security Archive also supports FedCURE’s fulfilling the
factors of the public interest prong of the test for a fee waiver, discussed previously.
-34-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 35 of 36

DoD has also refused to characterize EPIC as a representative of
the news media because it is a tax-exempt entity under 26 U.S.C. §
501(c)(3). There is nothing in DoD’s regulations or in FIRA
[Freedom of Information Reform Act of 1986] that states that taxexempt corporations are excluded from news media status. Again,
the National Security Archive, like EPIC, was “a non-profit
corporation to which the ... IRS ... granted tax-exempt status....
The determinative issue, once again, is the organization’s
“activities,” not its corporate structure.
Id. at 12.
FedCURE is also a 501 (c)(3) organization. Thus, Electronic Privacy Information applies
to FedCURE. See also Center for Public Integrity v. Dep’t of Health & Human Services, 2007
U.S. Dist. LEXIS 56172 (D.D.C. Aug. 3, 2007) (holding that a nonpartisan, nonnnprofit
investigative reporting organization that examines and writes about public sercvice and ethicsrelated issues is a representative of the news media).
Simply because FedCURE advocates prison reform, does not bar it from news media
representative status.
2. FedCURE as Noncommercial Scientific Institution.
FedCURE conducts research in the “soft” sciences as they relate to the federal prison
system. The information on the ion spectrometer will not promote any particular product or
industry. Essentially, this is scholarly research concerning the means by which the prison system
uses technology as a safety measure and the efficacy of this process.
CONCLUSION
In light of the above, this Court should deny Defendant’s motion for summary judgment,
reverse the denial of and grant summary judgment to FedCURE concerning its fee waiver request
in conjunction with production of information and documents on the ion spectrometer.
-35-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 36 of 36

Respectfully submitted,
January 11, 2008

/s/ James R. Klimaski
James R. Klimaski, #243543
Lynn I. Miller, #941559
Klimaski & Associates, P.C.
1625 Massachusetts Avenue NW – Suite 500
Washington, D.C. 20036-2245
202-296-5600
Klimaski@Klimaskilaw.com
Miller@Klimaskilaw.com
Attorneys for Plaintiff

Certificate of Service
I certify that the foregoing Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment and
its Exhibits will be served to the following counsel for Defendant in this case by the Court’s
CM/ECF system after proper filing of an Adobe PDF version of this item on the Court’s secure
website on January 11, 2008:
Jonathan C. Brumer
Special Assistant U.S. Attorney
555 4th Street NW – Room E-4815
Washington, DC 20530
202-514-8780 Fax
jonathan.brumer@usdoj.gov
jonathan.brumer@hhs.gov
Judith A. Kidwell
Office of the U.S. Attorney
555 4th Street NW
Washington, DC 20530
Judith.A.Kidwell@usdoj.gov
/s/ Jon Pinkus
Jon Pinkus
Klimaski and Associates, PC
-36-

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-2

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 4

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

FedCURE,
Plaintiff,
Civil Action No. 07-0843 (RBW)
v.
HARLEY G. LAPPIN, Director
Federal Bureau of Prisons,
Defendant.

STATEMENT OF GENUINE ISSUES OF
FACT NOT IN DISPUTE
Pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(e) and Local Rule 7.1(h), Plaintiff FedCURE submits this
statement of genuine issues of material fact not in dispute.
1.

By letter dated February 25, 2005, FedCURE submitted a request to the Federal Bureau
of Prisons’ (BOP), Freedom of Information (FOIA)/Privacy Act (PA) unit for:
1) all information about the accuracy of the ion spectrometer
scanning method and the number of visitors turned away at all
BOP facilities (by facility) because of the results of the scanning
method since institution of its use, 2) all information relating to the
training methods used for personnel operating this equipment and
staff comments as to these methods and 3) all records of equipment
failure and repairs.

(Exhibit A to Plaintiff’s Summary Judgment Opposition).
2.

By letter dated April 4, 2005, BOP’s FOIA/PA office responded to FedCURE’s request,
stating that the search would entail 142 hours at $7.00 per quarter hour for professional
time. BOP calculated the total cost at $3,976.00, excluding a duplication fee of .10 cents
per page. (Exhibit B).

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

3.

Document 15-2

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 4

BOP requested in the above same letter that it was requiring advance payment of the
$3,976.00 search fee to be sent within 30 days. Id.

4.

In a April 20, 2005, letter, FedCURE requested that the BOP waive the $3,976.00 search
fee and any copy fees. (Exhibit C).

5.

In support of the fee waiver request, FedCURE stated that it was a non-profit organization
with less than $5,000.00 in yearly donations and further stated that it published a
newsletter received by the public. Id.

6.

FedCURE further stated that it qualified for a fee waiver because the organization was a
noncommercial scientific institution” because of its involvement in the social sciences,
possession of an extensive library, constitution as a “think tank” and devotion of time and
resources to researching and disseminating information on matters of public interest. Id.

7.

FedCURE also stated in this same letter that the organization was a “representative of the
news media.,” pointing out that it published a newsletter. Id.

8.

The April 20, 2005, letter also noted that the ion spectrometer information was in the
public interest because it would contribute significantly to public understanding of
government operations and was not in FedCURE’s commercial interest. Id.

9.

Lastly, the April 20, 2005, letter explained that FedCURE had received numerous
requests from the public for information about the ion spectrometer, intended to publish
the letter in its newsletter and on its website, that the information was valuable to the
public, especially regular visitors to federal inmates, and that FedCURE was the world’s
leading expert in federal inmate matters. Id.

10.

By letter of September 26, 2005, BOP denied FedCURE’s request for a fee waiver.
2

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-2

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 3 of 4

(Exhibit D).
11.

The BOP found that FedCURE did not meet the statutory public interest test or regulatory
factors for a fee waiver. Id.

12.

In a letter of November 1, 2005, FedCURE appealed the denial of the fee waiver to the
Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Information and Privacy (OIP). (Exhibit E).

13.

In its appeal letter FedCURE enumerated the factors qualifying it for a fee waiver:
a. FedCURE is the largest private organization dealing with
federal inmate issues.
b. FedCURE’s two-year-old website provides timely news to the
public and had already had over 250,000 hits.
c. FedCURE’s chat room at Yahoo Groups had as many as 100
requests for information daily.
d. FedCURE was a 501(c)(3) non-profit whose directors and staff
served without pay.
e. The primary function of FedCURE was to provide the public
with information about the operations of the BOP.
f. FedCURE had received hundreds of questions and complaints
about the ion spectrometer and the reasoning behind its use.
g. The general public was interested in the ion spectrometer and
disclosure would significantly answer the public’s questions.
h. FedCURE had no commercial interest in the disclosure of this
information.

Id.
14.

By letter of June 29, 2006, the DOJ upheld the BOP’s denial of the fee waiver.
(Exhibit G).

15.

FedCURE filed a “Reconsideration of Appeal Denial” by letter of July 10, 2006.
3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-2

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 4 of 4

(Exhibit H). FedCURE requested that BOP reconsider the upholding of the fee waiver
denial based on the then recent decision, also dealing with an information request to the
BOP, Prison Legal News v. Lappin, 436 F.Supp.2d 17 (D.D.C. 2006).
16.

In a November 8, 2006, letter, DOJ denied the reconsideration. (Exhibit I).
Respectfully submitted,

January 11, 2008

/s/ James R. Klimaski
James R. Klimaski, #243543
Lynn I. Miller, #941559
Klimaski & Associates, P.C.
1625 Massachusetts Avenue NW – Suite 500
Washington, D.C. 20036-2245
202-296-5600
Klimaski@Klimaskilaw.com
Miller@Klimaskilaw.com
Attorneys for Plaintiff

4

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-3

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 2

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-3

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 2

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-4

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-4

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-4

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 3 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-5

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-5

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-5

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 3 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-6

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 4

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-6

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 4

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-6

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 3 of 4

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-6

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 4 of 4

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-7

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-7

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-7

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 3 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-8

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 2

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-8

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 2

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-9

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 5

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-9

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 5

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-9

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 3 of 5

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-9

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 4 of 5

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-9

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 5 of 5

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-10

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 2

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-10

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 2

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-11

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-11

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-11

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 3 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-12

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 1 of 4

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-12

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 2 of 4

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-12

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 3 of 4

Case 1:07-cv-00843-RBW

Document 15-12

Filed 01/11/2008

Page 4 of 4

