UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA
TAMPA DIVISION
JOHN J. THORNTON,
(d/b/a Baby Boomer Headquarters)
an individual,
Plaintiff,
CASE NO.: 8:06-cv-1640-T27-TGW

vs.
J JARGON CO., a Florida corporation;
JEANETTE C. LINDERS, an individual,
and TOC PRODUCTIONS, INC., a Florida
Corporation.
Defendants.
/

DEFENDANT J. JARGON CO.’S OPPOSITION TO PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR ADVERSE INFERENCE JURY INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING
DISCOVERY VIOLATIONS
Defendant J. Jargon Co. (“J. Jargon”), by and through its undersigned counsel
opposes to Plaintiff, John J. Thornton’s (“Thornton”) Motion for Adverse Inference Jury
Instruction regarding Discovery Violations [Dkt. 115] (“the Motion”) as follows:
SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT
In the Motion, Thornton alleges that the deposition testimony and answers to
interrogatories given by J. Jargon in the case at bar are inconsistent with an allegation that
J. Jargon made in a pleading in another case (hereinafter “the Trademark Case”). Contrary to
Thornton’s argument, the discovery responses and testimony by J. Jargon in this case are
accurate, truthful and consistent with the prior case pleading.

Moreover, Thornton’s

arguments ignore key portions of J. Jargon’s allegations made in the other case, and the
allegations cited in the Motion are taken out of context. Further, Thornton asks this Court to

accept his interpretation and definitions of the words “producer” and “presenter”, terms not
defined by the Copyright Act, which are inconsistent with J. Jargon’s definitions and use of
the words. Because of these deficiencies, the Court should deny the Motion. Finally, the
sanctions sought by Thornton are not appropriate, since there is no showing of bad faith or
any other discovery violation under Rule 37.
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
A.

This Copyright Infringement Action

Defendant Jeannette Linders is the author of the play “Menopause the Musical,” (the
“Play”). She first registered the copyright in her name on June 20, 2000 (registration No.:
PAU-2-535-888).

In January, 2002, she assigned all of her rights in the copyright to

J. Jargon. See, Admitted Facts Requiring No Proof at Trial at p. 8 of the Parties Joint PreTrial Statement. [Dkt. 116]
As the owner of the copyright, J. Jargon acted as a holding company, licensing to
others the rights to publicly perform the Play. Some of the licenses are to companies
controlled by Linders (such as defendant, TOC Productions, Inc., “TOC”), while other
licenses are to unaffiliated companies, (such as G-4 Productions, Inc.). See, excerpts of
transcripts of Linders deposition pp. 101-103 attached as Exhibit A. J. Jargon is a “rights
holding company” that does not have any employees or any offices. Id. at 68-69. The
financial records of TOC, which show that TOC paid for the printing of the programs for the
Orlando presentation of the Musical at issue in the Motion, further show that the programs
are TOC’s material and not that of J. Jargon. See, Exhibit 1 to Linders Declaration attached
hereto as Exhibit B.

2

In this case Thornton has sued TOC, Linders, and J. Jargon for copyright
infringement, alleging that the defendants infringed upon his alleged copyright in a trivia
quiz, entitled “the Baby Boomer Qualifying Exam” (“BBQE”), that Thornton alleges was
infringed by the “Take the Age Test” trivia quiz included in some copies of the free programs
for Menopause the Musical.

J. Jargon has denied Thornton’s claims of copyright

infringement and has presented evidence1 that it has not distributed, exploited, copied or
duplicated the BBQE, because Jargon did not print, manufacture, distribute, exploited, copy,
perform or duplicate the program, a requirement for a claim of copyright infringement. See
17 U.S.C. §106(1), (3), (4) & (5).
B.

The Trademark Case

In 2004, J. Jargon filed a suit for trademark infringement and unfair competition in
this District against Entertainment Events, Inc., John Pratt and Timothy P. Flaherty. See
Complaint, Case No. 6:04 CV 251 119 KRD (“the Trademark Case”). In the Trademark
Case, J. Jargon alleged that the defendants’ use of the mark “Menopositive, The Musical” for
a competing play infringed J. Jargon’s “Menopause, the Musical” mark. In the Trademark
Case, J. Jargon alleged ownership of trademark rights in Menopause the Musical, and sought
to enforce those rights.

Id.

There were no copyright infringement allegations in the

Trademark Case. Id.

1

J. Jargon has consistently testified in the form of answers to interrogatories, and in its 30(b)(6) depositions
through Joanne Grant and Catherine Clouse, that it is a holding company, that it is not involved in any way in
producing the Play, and that it “pretty much” has nothing to do with the Play other than licensing rights in it to
others and collecting royalties. J. Jargon’s Motion for Reconsideration [Dkt. 104] and as yet-unfiled Motion for
Rule 11 Sanctions, cited by the Plaintiff in his Motion, are likewise consistent with J. Jargon’s position that it
has not infringed upon the Plaintiff’s alleged exclusive rights in the Age Test, because J. Jargon did not create,
copy, distribute or exploit the programs to the Musical.

3

On September 22, 2008, Plaintiff’s counsel in this case emailed a letter to
Defendants’ undersigned counsel in which he claimed that J. Jargon had taken positions in
the Trademark Case that were contrary to positions it took in this case. Plaintiff’s counsel
attached a copy of the Trademark Case complaint and said that he planned to move for
sanctions against J. Jargon, including an adverse inference instruction. Prior to this
email/correspondence, the Plaintiff had not produced the Trademark Case complaint to
Defendants in this case and the Defendants’ undersigned counsel was not aware of its
existence. Plaintiff’s counsel, in contrast, obviously had been aware of it, because Holland &
Knight represented the defendants in the Trademark Case and represent the Plaintiff in this
case.
ARGUMENT
I.

The Testimony in the Copyright Action is Entirely Consistent with the
Allegations made by J. Jargon in the Trademark Case.
A.

The Complaint in the Trademark Case Alleges that All Presentations of the
Play Are Made Through Licensees.

Thornton has omitted key portions of J. Jargon’s allegations lodged in the Trademark
Case complaint, and as a result, the Motion distorts J. Jargon’s allegations in that matter.
Plaintiff’s misstatement of the factual allegations of the Trademark Case do not support any
conclusion that J. Jargon was claiming that it copied and distributed programs, whether or not
they contained the Age Test. Instead, a proper reading of the J. Jargon Trademark Case
complaint shows that J. Jargon only alleged that it “produced” and “presented” the Musical.
See Trademark Case complaint. Thornton now wants this court to extrapolate the words

4

chosen by J. Jargon’s counsel in the Trademark Case in a manner inconsistent with the
Copyright Act and inconsistent with common theatre industry parlance.
In the Trademark Case, J. Jargon alleged in paragraph 10 of the verified complaint:
“Through numerous theatrical productions companies formed or licensed
by Jargon, the show has been presented in various venues around the
country…successful presentations of the show, through Jargon’s licensed
presentations has run in excess of one year in West Palm, Orlando, Miami
and now, New York City…Furthermore, there are several continuing
licenses from Jargon to third parties for production of the show in the
United States and Foreign Territories. The show is currently or has been
presented by (or by license from) Jargon in the following states:”
See Trademark Case complaint, at¶10 (emphasis added). This material omission in the
Motion seeks to obscure the consistency between the allegations of J. Jargon in the
Trademark Case, that J. Jargon merely licensed the Play to others who performed the
Musical, and the testimony presented in the case at bar.
B.

There is no Legal Significance to the Use of the terms “Produce” and
“Present” in the Trademark Case.

The Plaintiff also attempts to argue that J. Jargon’s statement in paragraph 11 of the
Trademark Complaint that it presented and produced the Play means that J. Jargon therefore
must have infringed the BBQE by reproducing in copies, distributing, or performing the Age
Test, since the Age Test appears in programs. However, the logic of Thornton’s argument is
disjointed in a copyright context; for the Copyright Act uses the word “perform” and not
“produce” when describing the exclusive rights of authors, see, 17 U.S.C. 106. Nowhere in
the Copyright Act are the words “produced” or “presented” defined. However, in the context
of the theatre industry, these terms are not indicative that J. Jargon was the party who
performed the play, or printed, copied, disseminated or distributed the program which

5

contained the Age Test. See Linders declaration at paragraphs 4 and 5; Doppelt declaration
at Paragraph 24; Section 106 of the Copyright Act.
The only issue for the trier of fact in this action is whether J. Jargon copied,
disseminated or distributed the program, and not whether J. Jargon produced or presented the
Play. Most telling, at no place in the Trademark Case complaint does J. Jargon allege that it
printed, copied, or distributed the program. Admittedly, paragraph 14 of the Trademark Case
complaint makes a poor description of the program. For example, the complaint does state
that an example of Jargon’s “promotional materials” are attached as Exhibit “B.” However,
attached as Exhibit “B” to the Trademark Case complaint is the same program that is at the
heart of this case. That Exhibit demonstrates the true party that created the program was
TOC Productions, and not J. Jargon. Nowhere in the program is any attribution given to
J. Jargon. To the contrary, the program attached to the Trademark Case complaint clearly
shows that the Musical is presented and produced by TOC Productions, Inc. See Exhibit B to
the Trademark Case complaint, at page 31 of 42 (“TOC Productions, Inc. Presents
Menopause the Musical”); page 32 of 42 (listing the employees of Toc Productions, Inc.).
C.

There is no Legal Significance to the Inclusion of Unbranded Pages of a
Program in Exhibit B to the Trademark Case Complaint.

Moreover, the Trademark Case allegation that examples of Jargons “promotional
materials” are attached as at Exhibit “B” to that Complaint should be given little weight.
Doppelt notes that the unbranded pages were included “for completeness,” and not intended
to imply that the program as a whole was created by Jargon. Doppelt Decl. ¶ 25. Thus, it
appears that the program pages after the front page of the program that included, by license,
the Menopause the Musical trademarks, were mistakenly attached as an exhibit to the

6

Trademark Case complaint because said pages did not promote the trademark. This potential
inconsistency is more than adequately explained by Linders and by Ms. Doppelt, the attorney
who drafted the Trademark Case complaint. Both witnesses have stated in their respective
declarations that that what they alleged in ¶10 is that the presentations of the Play occurred
“through production companies formed or licensed by Jargon.” Thus, they intended that all
subsequent references to presentations or productions of the Musical by J. Jargon would be
understood to have occurred through licensed production companies. See, Declarations of
Jeanie Linders and Ava Doppelt attached as Exhibits B and C.
The Trademark Case complaint also alleges that examples of J. Jargon’s promotional
material are attached as Exhibit B to the Trademark Complaint. To the extent that the
entirety of a printed program is included in Exhibit B, that occurred in error. Linders
Declaration at ¶ 10; Doppelt Declaration at paragraphs 20, 24-25. The cover page of a
printed program contains Jargon’s trademarked name, Menopause the Musical, and the
dancing ladies’ logo. The cover page in exhibit B is not followed by the remainder of the
program but is separated by several pages of other material displaying J. Jargon’s
trademarked name and logo from the remainder of the printed program, which starts at page
31 of Exhibit B. (Dkt. 115-3).
II.

J. Jargon has Not Acted in Bad Faith, and Sanctions are Not Warranted.
Nothing in the Plaintiff’s Motion identifies any discovery violation by J Jargon or any

of the Defendants. The Defendants answered the deposition questions and interrogatories
propounded to them. To the extent those answers differ from the allegations of the trademark
Complaint, it is for a jury to resolve them. Assuming the Plaintiff is permitted to use the

7

Trademark Case complaint at trial, even though his counsel clearly knew about it when they
filed the Complaint in this case yet refused to make defense counsel aware of it until the day
before the pretrial conference meeting, the Plaintiff can attempt to use the Trademark Case
complaint for impeachment. But there is no basis to sanction J Jargon or to give an adverse
inference jury instruction.

J. Jargon has given truthful testimony in this case, which is

consistent with the context in which the Trademark Case was pled. The attached declarations
of Linders and Doppelt show that Jargon has at all times acted in good faith. Thus, an
adverse inference jury instruction is clearly not appropriate.
As the Motion points out, “‘[t]he key to unlocking a court's inherent power is a
finding of bad faith.’” In re Sunshine Jr. Stores, Inc., 456 F.3d 1291, 1304 (11th Cir. 2006).
“A party ... demonstrates bad faith by delaying or disrupting the litigation or hampering
enforcement of a court order.” Id. Here, there is no allegation that J. Jargon has hampered
enforcement of a court order. Plaintiff instead argues that J. Jargon somehow disrupted the
litigation in this case by taking a position contrary to its alleged position in a case that was
closed years ago. Not only are the allegations consistent, as explained above, but Plaintiff
has utterly failed to show how the supposed inconsistency has disrupted or otherwise
hampered this case.

Indeed, Jargon’s truthful answers to interrogatories and in other

discovery in this matter lead Plaintiff to file an unopposed motion to add defendant TOC
Productions, Inc. as a party in this matter. See Dkt. 38. Far from obstructing the truth in this
matter, Jargon has at all times acted appropriately.
Jargon has not made inconsistent representations to the Court. Rather, at all times,
Jargon maintained that it was the owner of the copyright and that it was merely the licensor

8

to third parties, including TOC Productions, who prepared, copied and distributed the
programs. While Jargon’s counsel may have alleged (in the Trademark Case) that Jargon
“produced” or “presented” the Play, those words do not mean that Jargon prepared, copied or
distributed the program. Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions quotes, out of context, the sentence
in the trademark Complaint that “Jargon has presented the Show before sessions of the
United States Congress and at several highly respected national health conventions and
universities.” See, Motion for Sanctions at p. 7. This should be read in context with the
statement only three sentences earlier that the presentations of the Show are “through
theatrical production companies formed or licensed by Jargon,” and in context with the next
sentence that the successful presentations of the Show are “through Jargon’s licensed
presentations.” Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions is unfair and misleading because it argues
that Jargon presents the Musical itself, rather than through production companies that it
licenses, completely ignoring Jargon’s allegations in ¶10 of the trademark case which rebut
that argument.
Yet another example of how the Motion for Sanctions misreads the trademark
Complaint is found on page 7 where it quotes the allegation of ¶11 that “the Show has been
playing to the public in the Orlando area continuously since the Spring of 2003, presented
and produced by Jargon.” The Motion for Sanctions fails to point out that ¶10 alleges that
the presentation of the Show “in Orlando” has been “through Jargon’s licensed
presentations.” (emphasis added). When read in its entirety, the Trademark Case complaint
is not inconsistent with the testimony of the Defendants in this case that Jargon is just a
holding company that licenses the Musical to theatrical production companies.

9

III.

If the Complaint in the Trademark Case is Admitted into Evidence at Trial, the
Trier of Fact is Competent to Assess its Relevance as Impeachment Without an
Adverse Inference Instruction or Sanction.
Finally, to the extent a trier of fact could read the complaint in the Trademark Case as

inconsistent with the discovery answers given in this case, it is for a jury to resolve the
factual issues, and no adverse inference instruction is necessary for the jury to undertake that
analysis. The Federal Rules of Evidence and general evidentiary principles allow that a
witness may be impeached through the introduction of prior inconsistent statements. “It is a
basic rule of evidence that prior inconsistent statements may be used for impeachment
purposes.” U.S. v. Maizumi, 526 F.2d 848, 850 (5th Cir. 1976).
The supposed inconsistent statements, if not explained to the satisfaction of the fact
finder, can be used by the fact finder to determine witness credibility. There is no legal
authority for the court using an inconsistency to do more than that. The Plaintiff has not
cited any legal authority for his request to use an inconsistent statement to sanction a party, to
create an adverse inference jury instruction or to deny a party the right to explain or rebut the
inconsistency.2 Court dockets would be full of motions like Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions
if a prior inconsistent statement supported sanctions and the other punitive measures
requested by Plaintiff, because witnesses often make inconsistent statements. The Plaintiff in
this case is no exception and his numerous inconsistent statements on material issues in this
case will be highlighted during the upcoming trial. That is the role of cross examination and
impeachment. It is not the role of Rule 37, which is designed to prevent parties from
2

Moreover, Plaintiff does not provide the Court with any means to fully assess his request, because he fails to
suggest either a standard jury instruction or some other jury instruction fashioned by him that would meet his
needs. For this reason alone, the Motion should be denied. See BUC Int’l Corp. v. Int’l Yacht Council Ltd., 489
F.3d 1129, 1150 (11th Cir. 2007)(noting it is unreasonable for counsel to expect a trial court to fashion a jury
instruction from scratch when counsel failed to submit a proposed instruction in writing).

10

willfully disobeying the rules of discovery. There is no evidence of any conduct by the
defendants triggering any sanction under Rule 37 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and
the Motion for Sanctions should be denied.
CONCLUSION
Thornton has not demonstrated bad faith in the part of J. Jargon to justify sanctions,
especially a jury instruction that would have the effect of prejudicing the jury against
J. Jargon.

To the extent that the Trademark Case makes allegations inconsistent with

testimony in this case, such inconsistencies at most may be useful for impeachment at trial.
The supposed inconsistent statements, if not explained to the satisfaction of the fact finder,
can be used by the fact finder to determine witness credibility. There is no legal authority for
the court using an inconsistency to do more than that. Finally, Thornton’s request for fees
should be denied.

11

Dated: October 20, 2008

By: /s/ G. Donovan Conwell, Jr.
G. Donovan Conwell, Jr.
Florida Bar No: 371319
G. Wrede Kirkpatrick
Florida Bar No: 984116
Dineen Pashoukos Wasylik
Florida Bar No: 191620
CONWELL KIRKPATRICK, P.A.
2701 N. Rocky Point Drive, Suite 1200
Tampa, Florida 33607
(813) 282-8000; (813) 282-8800 Facsimile
dconwell@csklawfirm.com
wkirkpatrick@csklawfirm.com
dwasylik@csklawfirm.com
Counsel for Defendant TOC Productions
Mark Goldstein
Florida Bar No: 882186
Wolfe & Goldstein, P.A.
100 SE Second Avenue, Suite 3300
Miami, FL 33131
(305) 381-7115; (305) 381-7116 Fax
mgoldstein@wolfelawmiami.com
Counsel for Defendants Linders and J Jargon

12

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on October 20, 2008, I electronically filed the foregoing
with the Clerk of the Court by using the CM/ECF system which will send a notice of
electronic filing to the following:
William F. Hamilton, Esq.
william.hamilton@hklaw.com,
Stefan V. Stein, Esq.
stefan.stein@hklaw.com,
Michael J. Colitz, III, Esq.
michael.colitz@hklaw.com,
Woodrow H. Pollack, Esq.
woodrow.pollack@hlaw.com
Holland & Knight LLP
100 N. Tampa Street, Suite 4100
Tampa, FL 33602.
/s/ G. Donovan Conwell, Jr.
Attorney

13

