UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA
DANIEL STOUT, ET AL.

*
*
Plaintiffs
*
*
VERSUS
*
*
NATIONAL CASUALTY COMPANY, ET AL. *
*
Defendants
*
*
*
*****************************

CIVIL ACTION NO. 08-4409
SECTION “R”
JUDGE VANCE
MAGISTRATE NO. 3
MAGISTRATE KNOWLES
A JURY IS DEMANDED

REPLY MEMORANDUM IN FURTHER SUPPORT OF MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL
AND AMENDING ANSWER

NOW INTO COURT, through undersigned counsel, come Defendants, Demingo Johnson
Western Express, Inc., and National Casualty Company, who submit the following Reply
Memorandum in Further Support of their Motion for Leave to File First Supplemental and
Amending Answer:
In their Memorandum in Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendants have failed to
demonstrate the good cause necessary for this Court to permit the proposed amendment of their
Answer after the deadline for such amendments provided for in the Court’s scheduling order has
passed. Plaintiffs further argue that they will be prejudiced if this Court permits Defendants to

amend their Answer and assert the affirmative defense of driver intoxication provided by
Louisiana law. Neither argument is supported by the facts of this case or the controlling law of
the Fifth Circuit.
Defendants have demonstrated good cause necessary to file the proposed amended
Answer and have explained why the proposed amendment was not previously filed. It is true
that all parties have been in possession of the toxicology report which reveals the presence of
several medications, including hydrocodone and dihydrocodine, in Daniel Stout’s bloodstream at
the time of his emergency room treatment in New Orleans on the date of the accident. In this
case, Daniel Stout did possess a valid prescription for hydrocodone as a result of an ankle injury
prior to the accident, and so the affirmative defense provided by La. R.S. 9:2798.4 would not
apply as regards the hydrocodone. Defendants thus subpoenaed prescription records for Daniel
Stout and Gerri Stout to determine if valid prescriptions existed to explain the presence of other
controlled substances in the toxicology report. Only after receipt and review of the medical
records from multiple providers and pharmacies were Defendants in a position to determine the
potential applicability of the immunity of La. R.S. 9:2798.4.

Without this information,

previously not available to Defendants, there was no way to determine what support existed to
assert this affirmative defense. Defendants simply could not make a determination that Daniel
Stout did not possess a valid prescription for dihydrocodine prior to this discovery, and so could
not, in good faith, assert the affirmative defense prior to the discovery and analysis of relevant
medical records. Thus, good cause exists to explain the timing of the assertion by Defendants of
the affirmative defense.

-2-

Separate and apart from the above explanation of Defendants’ good cause, it remains the
case that the issue of Daniel Stout’s comparative fault has been known to Plaintiffs throughout
this litigation, and so there exists no unfair surprise with the proposed amendment.

As

previously explained, Plaintiffs have been aware of the issues of comparative fault, and specific
reference to the toxicology results was made in relation to the Motion in Limine as cited in
Defendants’ original Motion for Leave.
Regarding Plaintiffs’ claims that it would be necessary to re-depose all medical providers
should this Court grant leave to file the amended Answer, Plaintiffs offer no reason why this
expense would be necessary, as none of the physicians deposed to date have anything to do with
the drug test or have expertise in toxicology. As pointed out above, all parties had access to the
toxicology report, and Plaintiffs were free to question any medical providers regarding those
records during the depositions that have been completed.

In fact, as cited in Plaintiffs’

Opposition, the topic was explored during the deposition of Dr. Deblieux.

Further, the

deposition of the medical technician who performed the toxicology analysis has not yet been
scheduled, and ample time remains to complete discovery on this issue. Additionally, Plaintiff
has ample time to retain a toxicology expert.
As explained in Defendants’ Motion for Leave, the Fifth Circuit has affirmed the
amendment of Answers to plead affirmative defenses on numerous occasions closer in time to
the trial date than is requested in this case. The line of decisions previously cited by Defendants
supports the allowance of amendments in similar cases. Indeed, the “prejudice” element has
been found to not exist when amendments were made much closer to trial than the instant

-3-

request.

In the instant case, Plaintiffs cannot show that they will be prejudiced by this

amendment, but Defendants certainly will suffer great prejudice if not allowed to assert the
immunity defense provided by Louisiana law.
The cases cited by Plaintiffs in their Opposition are simply not analogous to the instant
situation. In the Schubert Marine decision, Judge Engelhardt approved the recommendation that
the defendant not be allowed to amend its answer to assert a particular affirmative defense of
superseding cause related to the unseaworthiness and sinking of a vessel. The Schubert Marine
decision found that there was no justification for the defendant’s failure to inspect the vessel for
over three years, as the vessel was available to the parties for such an inspection. In the instant
case, Defendants simply did not have access to the medical and prescription records of Daniel
Stout until subpoena returns were completed by multiple providers. More importantly for the
Schubert Marine decision was that court’s determination that the affirmative defense was futile,
as the proposed affirmative defense could not qualify as a superseding cause. Citing decisions
holding that Rule 15(a) does not require an untimely amendment that would be futile, Judge
Engelhardt denied leave to amend. 2003 WL 21664701 at *5. In the instant case, the proposed
affirmative defense is certainly not futile, as the immunity provided by La. R.S. 9:2798.4 is
applicable because Daniel Stout does not have a prescription for dihydrocodine.
Likewise, in the S&W Enterprises decision, the Fifth Circuit affirmed the denial of leave
to amend the plaintiff’s Complaint whereby plaintiff sought to assert an entirely new cause of
action for interference with contract involving a contract not previously named in the pleadings,
after the deadline for amendment of pleadings in the scheduling order. 315 F.3d at 535. The

-4-

Fifth Circuit analyzed the factors for modifying a scheduling order, and concluded that the
plaintiff had not shown good cause, as no new facts were uncovered in discovery, and the
plaintiff offered “effectively no explanation” other than “inadvertence” for its failure to amend
timely. 315 F.3d at 536. As the entirely new cause of action would delay that trial and prejudice
the defendant, the Fifth Circuit affirmed the denial of leave to amend. In the instant case, the
discovery of the new fact that Daniel Stout was not prescribed dihydrocodine did not occur until
the medical records were obtained through returns of subpoenas, and the issue of comparative
fault has been known to all parties throughout this litigation.
In contrast to the above cases cited by Plaintiffs, the cases cited by Defendants in the
original Motion for Leave provide guidance and authority to this Court to allow the granting of
leave to file the Amended Answer. See, e.g., Rogers v. McDorman, 521 F.3d 381 (5th Cir. 2008)
(affirmative defense of in pari delicto permitted when raised for the first time at trial); Pasco ex.
rel. Pasco v. Knoblauch, 566 F.3d 572 (5th Cir. 2009) (affirmative defense of immunity allowed
52 months after initial pleading and two months prior to discovery cutoff);

Alliance

Versicherungs, AG v. Profreight Brokers, Inc., 99 F.Appx. 10 (5th Cir. 2004) (unpublished)
(affirmative defense of contractual limitation of liability allowed when first raised in pre-trial
order three months prior to trial).
Plaintiffs will not be prejudiced, as they are on notice of the issue and have adequate time
to prepare a response to the affirmative defense. In contrast, Defendants would be greatly
prejudiced should they not be allowed to assert this affirmative defense and allow the jury to

-5-

determine the degree of comparative fault that should be assigned to Daniel Stout in causing the
accident.
As such, for all of the above and previously raised reasons, Defendants pray that this
Honorable Court grant leave to file Defendants’ First Supplemental and Amending Answer.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/Kyle P. Kirsch________________
MICHAEL R. SISTRUNK (12111)
KYLE P. KIRSCH (26363)
McCRANIE, SISTRUNK, ANZELMO,
HARDY, McDANIEL & WELCH
400 Lafayette Street, Suite 100
New Orleans, Louisiana 70130
Telephone: (504) 831-0946
Facsimile: (504) 529-9796

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that a copy of the above and foregoing has been served on counsel of
record this 24th day of May, 2010, in accordance with the Court’s ECF Rules.
/s/ Kyle P. Kirsch_____

-6-

