UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN

Case No. 15-CV-00447

Emerson Hall Associates, L.P.,
1313 East Hyde Park Boulevard,
Chicago, IL 60615,

DEFENDANT TRAVELERS
CASUALTY INSURANCE
COMPANY OF AMERICA’S BRIEF
IN OPPOSITION TO PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO AMEND COMPLAINT

Plaintiff,

vs.
Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America,
1 Tower Square,
Hartford, CT 06183,
Defendant.

INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Emerson Hall seeks an Order from the Court permitting it to Amend its Complaint
in order to (1) clarify prior allegations; (2) assert a defamation claim based on allegations in
Travelers’ Counterclaim; and (3) assert additional bad faith conduct due to the allegations in
Travelers’ Counterclaim. This Court should deny Plaintiff’s Motion to Amend as it is untimely and
futile due to the absolute litigation privilege and case law generally holding that evidence of an
insurance company’s litigation conduct, strategies and techniques after the commencement of the
suit is irrelevant, inadmissible and prohibited as against public policy.

1

STATEMENT OF FACTS
I.

The Complaint
In June 2015, Plaintiff Emerson Hall Associates, L.P. (“Plaintiff” or “Emerson Hall”) filed

suit in Rock County, Wisconsin, against Travelers alleging claims of bad faith and breach of
contract following a September 2013 fire and December 2013 water loss incident at an elderly
housing facility located at 930 Church Street in Beloit, Wisconsin. (Compl., DN2) Travelers timely
removed the matter to federal court. (DN2 & DN23)
II.

Travelers Filed A Counterclaim
Travelers filed a Motion to Amend to assert additional Affirmative Defenses, as well as a

Counterclaim for Breach of Contract on or about December 29, 2015. (DN28-DN30) The Court
granted the Motion on or about January 19, 2016. (DN33) Travelers filed its Amended Answer and
Counterclaim on January 20, 2016. (DN34)
III.

Plaintiff’s Initial Counsel Withdraws and New Counsel Appears
Emerson Hall’s initial counsel filed a Motion to Withdraw. (DN26 & DN27) This Motion

was granted by the Court on February 5, 2016. (DN39 & DN40) Thereafter, Emerson Hall retained
new counsel which appeared in this case on March 7, 2016. (DN42 & DN43)
Emerson Hall’s new counsel has now moved to Amend its Complaint in order to (1) clarify
the factual bases for its claims; and (2) to include Travelers’ false accusations of fraud as an
additional basis for its bad faith claim. (DN 46 & DN47)

A review of Plaintiff’s proposed

Amended Complaint, however, also reveals that Emerson Hall is also seeking to allege that the
allegations contained in Travelers’ Counterclaim are “false, reckless, defamatory and malicious.”
(DN47 & DN47.1, ¶ 81)

2

ARGUMENT AND ANALYSIS
I.

Standard For Denying Motions To Amend
“Whether to grant a motion to amend a pleading is within a court’s discretion.” Pabst

Brewing Co., Inc. v. Corrao, 176 F.R.D. 552, 557 (E.D. Wis. 1995). However, “Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 15(a) provides that if a party is not entitled to amend a pleading as a matter of
course, it may amend ‘with the opposing party’s written consent or the court’s leave.’” Soltys v.
Costello, 520 F.3d 737, 743 (7th Cir. 2008).
The seventh circuit has instructed that courts, in their discretion, may deny a proposed
amendment if (1) the moving party has unduly delayed in filing the motion, (2) the opposing party
would suffer undue prejudice, or (3) the pleading is futile. Id. “A court of appeals will overturn a
district court’s denial of a motion to amend only if the district court has abused that discretion by
not providing a justifying reason for its decision.” Perrian v. O’Grady, 958 F.2d 192, 194 (7th Cir.
1992). No abuse of discretion has been found if the amendment will not cure the original pleading;
if the amendment fails to state a claim; or if the proposed amendment could not withstand a motion
to dismiss. Glick v. Koenig, 766 F.2d 265, 268 (7th Cir. 1985).
Here, Plaintiff’s Motion to Amend its Complaint should be denied due to (1) undue delay
and dilatory motive and (2) futility.
II.

Denial Of Plaintiff’s Motion To Amend Proper Due To Delay And Dilatory Motive
A.

Undue Delay And Dilatory Motive

A plaintiff’s right to amend is not absolute. See Brunt v. SEIU, 284 F.3d 715, 720 (7th Cir.
2002). While delay is usually not reason enough on its own, “the longer the delay, the greater the
presumption against granting leave to amend.” Soltys, supra, 70 F.3d at 743.

3

Here, Emerson Hall filed suit in June 2015. (Compl., DN 2) Emerson Hall’s Motion to
Amend its Complaint was filed in March 2016. (DN47) This nine month delay constitutes an
undue delay especially since one of the stated reasons for the amendment is simply to clarify “the
factual bases for its claims” justifying denial of Emerson Hall’s Motion to Amend as a matter of
law. (Id., p. 2) In fact, Plaintiff admits that its “substantive claims remains the same.” (Id.) Rather,
it simply seeks to refine and better explain its claims. (Id.) However, clarification of Emerson
Hall’s factual allegations, if any, may be accomplished via the discovery process without need for
additional or amended pleadings.
B.

Amendment Based On Moot Claim

Under federal law, a plaintiff will not be allowed to amend his complaint if such
amendments will be futile. See Moore v. State of Indiana, 999 F.2d 1125, 1128 (7th Cir. 1993).
Here, Plaintiff seeks to Amend the Complaint in order to assert a claim of bad faith based on
defense counsel’s litigation decision to file a Counterclaim for Breach of Contract against Emerson
Hall for its alleged breach of its duty to cooperate or false statements/representations during the
claims process. (DN45-DN47.1) Additionally, a review of the proposed Amended Complaint
reveals that Plaintiff may also be seeking to assert a defamation claim. (DN47-DN47.1, ¶ 81)
The 7th Circuit, however, has recognized an absolute litigation privilege which precludes not
only tort liability, but also contractual liability claims. See Rain v. Rollys-Royce Corp., 626 F.3d
372, 377-79 (7th Cir. 2010). In Rain, the 7th Court, applying Indiana law, recognized that:
The purpose of the privilege is to ‘preserv[e] the due administration of justice by
providing actors in judicial proceedings with the freedom to participate without fear
of future defamation claims. * * * In the words of one Indiana court, the privilege
recognizes that the ‘public[’s] interest in the freedom of expression by participants in
judicial proceedings, uninhibited by the risk of resultant suits for defamation, is so
vital and necessary to the integrity of our judicial system that it must be made
paramount to the right of the individual to a legal remedy when he has been
wronged.”
4

Id., 376-77.
Wisconsin courts also recognize that “[j]udicial proceedings are protected by an absolute
privilege.” See Churchill v. WFA Econometrics Corp., 258 Wis.2d 926, 932 (Wis. App. 2002).
According to the Churchill court, “[t]he absolute privilege rule was established to provide litigants
with the freedom to access the courts, ‘to preserve and defend their rights and to protect attorneys
during the course of their representation of clients.’” Id., citation omitted. In order for the privilege
to apply, “the statements must satisfy two requirements: (1) the statement ‘must be made in a
procedural context that is recognized as affording absolute privilege; and (2) the statement ‘must be
relevant to the matter under consideration.’” Id.
Here, Plaintiff seeks to amend its Complaint in order to assert a defamation claim based on
allegations set forth in a Counterclaim. (DN47-DN47.1, ¶ 81)

However, allegations in a

Counterclaim are afforded an absolute privilege under Wisconsin law as recognized by the 7th
Circuit. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Amend its Complaint in order to assert a defamation
claim against Travelers, which would be barred by the absolute privilege rule is futile, and
amendment of Plaintiff’s Complaint should be denied as a matter of law.
Plaintiff also seeks to Amend its Complaint in order to allege an additional element of bad
faith based on allegations contained in Travelers’ Counterclaim. (DN45-DN47.1) This claim is
also futile as bad faith arises out of the denial of a claim during the claims handling process and not
due to litigation conduct. See Anderson v. Continental Ins. Co., 85 Wis.2d 675, 691-92, 271
N.W.2d 368, 376 (Wis. 1978) (concluding that insured “must show the absence of a reasonable
basis for denying benefits of the policy and the defendant’s knowledge or reckless disregard of the
lack of a reasonable basis for denying the claim.”); see also Brethorst v. Allstate Property and Cas.
Ins. Co., 2011 WI 41, ¶ 36, 334 Wis.2d 23, 41, 798 N.W.2d 467, 476 (holding that in order to prove
5

bad faith against an insurer a plaintiff must establish that there was no reasonable basis for the
insurance company’s denial of the insured’s claim for benefits under the policy). Here, Travelers
did not deny Plaintiff’s claim having paid more than a million dollars as a result of both the fire and
water loss claims, but rather exercised its right to dispute the legitimacy of some of the fairly
debatable damages claimed by Plaintiff. The fact that Travelers’ litigation defense includes a
counterclaim for breach of contract by the insured does not give rise to a pre-existing claim of bad
faith.
In fact, courts around the country have generally rejected bad faith claims based on litigation
conduct of the insurer or its defense counsel. The rationale for this holding is that evidence of the
insurer’s litigation tactics are irrelevant to proof of bad faith handling of the underlying claim. See
Knotts v. Zurich Ins. Co., 197 S.W.3d 512 (Ky. 2006). The Knotts court recognized that “[t]o
permit evidence of insurers’ litigation strategies and tactics is to impede insurers’ access to the
courts and right to defend, because it makes them reluctant to contest coverage of questionable
claims.” Id., 521.
Other courts have similarly held:
Defensive pleading, including the assertion of affirmative defenses, is
communication protected by the absolute litigation privilege. Such pleading, even
though allegedly false, interposed in bad faith, or even asserted for inappropriate
purposes, cannot be used as the basis for allegations of ongoing bad faith. No
complaint can be grounded upon such pleading.
California Physicians’ Services v. Superior Court, 9 Cal.App. 4th 1321, 12 Cal.Rptr.2d 95, 100 (Cal.
App. 1992); see also Nies v. National Auto. & Cas. Ins. Co., 199 Cal.App.3d 1192, 245 Cal.Rptr.
518 (Cal. Ct. App. 1988) (ruling that insurers will be disabled from conducting vigorous defense in
a bad faith action if their pleadings may be used to provide bad faith); Parker v. Southern Farm
Bureau Cas. Ins. Co., 326 Ark. 1073, 935 S.W.2d 556, 562 (Ark. 1996) (holding that “none of the

6

conduct by Farm Bureau after the filing of the complaint, including legal positions asserted, can
provide a basis for Parker’s bad faith claim); Roussalis v. Wyoming Med. Center, Inc., 4 P.3d 209,
257 (Wy. 2000) (disallowing bad faith claim based on ruling that post-filing conduct is controlled
by the Rules of Civil Procedure); Sims v. The Travelers Ins. Co., 16 P.3d 468 (Ok. App. 2000)
(concluding that litigation conduct, such as filing motions to dismiss, objecting to discovery, and
refusing requests for mediation, cannot be the basis for a bad faith action); Parsons v. Allstate Ins.
Co., 165 P.3d 809, 819 (Colo. App. 2007) (refusing to permit jury to consider attorney’s litigation
conduct as part of an insured’s bad faith claim).
The overall policy rationale for excluding evidence of litigation strategies and techniques of
an insurance company was succinctly set forth by the Montana Supreme Court when it concluded:
[T]he continuing duty of good faith does not necessarily render evidence of an
insurer’s post-filing conduct admissible. * * * Public policy favors the exclusion of
evidence of an insurer’s post-filing litigation conduct in at least two respects. First,
permitting such evidence is unnecessary because the initial action, trial courts can
assure that defendants do not act improperly. Next, and more importantly, the
introduction of such evidence hinders the right to defend and impairs access to
courts. The Rules of Civil Procedure control the litigation process, and in most
instances, provide adequate remedies for improper conduct during the litigation
process. Once the parties have assumed adversarial roles, it is generally for the
judge in the underlying case and not the jury to determine whether a party should be
penalized for bad faith tactics. * * * An attorney in litigation is ethically bound to
represent the client zealously within the framework provided by statutes and the
Rules of Civil Procedure. These procedural rules define clear boundaries of
litigation conduct. If a defense attorney exceeds the boundaries, the judge can strike
the answer and enter judgment for the plaintiff, enter summary judgment for the
plaintiff, or impose sanctions. * * * There is no need to penalize insurers when their
attorneys represent them zealously within the bounds of litigation conduct. To allow
a jury to find that an insurer acted in bad faith by zealously defending itself is to
impose such a penalty. The most serious policy consideration in allowing evidence
of the insurer’s post-filing conduct is that it punishes insurers for pursuing legitimate
lines of defense and obstructs their right to contest coverage of dubious claims. * * *
This brings us to another crucial point, the relevance of the insurer’s post-filing
conduct. In general, an insurer’s litigation tactics and strategy in defending a claim
are not relevant to the insurer’s decision to deny coverage. Indeed, if the insured
must rely on evidence of the insurer’s post-filing conduct to prove bad faith in denial
of coverage, questions arise as to the validity of the insured’s initial claim of bad
7

faith. * * * After the onset of litigation, an insurer begins to concentrate on
supporting the decisions that led it to deny the claim. The insurer relies heavily on
its attorneys using common litigation strategies and tactics to defend against a
debatable claim. Consequently, actions taken after an insured files suit are at best
marginally probative of the insurer’s decision to deny coverage. * * *
Palmer v. Farmers Ins. Exchange, 261 Mont. 91, 121—23, 861 P.2d 895, 913-15 (Mont. 1993).
In addition to state courts, various federal courts have also precluded litigation conduct from
serving as evidence of an insurer’s bad faith. See Timberlake Const. Co. v. U.S. Fidelity and Guar.
Co., 71 F.3d 335, 340-41 (10th Cir. 1995) (holding that evidence of litigation conduct “should rarely,
if ever, be allowed to serve as proof of bad faith” reasoning that to allow “litigation conduct to serve
as evidence of bad faith would undermine an insurer’s right to contest questionable claims and to
defend itself against such claims … [P]ermitting allegations of litigation misconduct would have a
‘chilling effect’ on insurers, which could unfairly penalize them by inhibiting their attorneys from
zealously and effectively representing their clients within the bounds permitted by law … [i]nsurers’
counsel would be placed in an untenable position if legitimate litigation conduct could be used as
evidence of bad faith. Where improper litigation conduct is at issue, generally the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure provide adequate means of redress …”); see also Rawe v. Liberty Mut. Fire Ins.
Co., 462 F.3d 521, 535 (6th Cir. 2006) (concluding that insurer’s failure to pay settlement was
inadmissible evidence of bad faith and concluding that Federal Rules of Civil Procedure provided
“litmus test” for inadmissible litigation conduct).
Here, the Court reviewed and permitted Travelers’ Motion to Amend to assert a
Counterclaim for Declaratory Judgment. (DN33) If Plaintiff’s new counsel believes the allegations
are without merit, they are entitled to pursue a Motion for Summary Judgment. Allegations in the
Counterclaim do not, however, give rise to either a claim for defamation or bad faith under the case

8

law set forth, in detail, above. Because the allegations of bad faith and defamation are invalid,
Emerson Hall’s Motion to Amend is futile and should be denied as a matter of law.
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff has failed to establish good cause for Amending its Complaint, as required by Rule
15(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Plaintiff’s Motion to Amend is untimely and the
requested amendment seeking to clarify the causes of action, and to add either a defamation or a bad
faith claim based on litigation defenses and strategy is meritless and not supported by the law.
Accordingly, this Court should deny Plaintiff’s request to file an Amended Complaint.
BORGELT, POWELL, PETERSON &
FRAUEN S.C.
By /s/ Stacy E. Ertz___________________
Stacy E. Ertz, Esq. (WI #1040729)
7825 3rd Street North
Suite 206
Oakdale, MN 55128
Telephone: (651) 256-5000
Fax: (651) 340-1456
Counsel for Defendant
Travelers Casualty Insurance
Company of America

Date: April 8, 2016

9

