Case 1:13-cv-01518-GLR Document 25 Filed 08/19/13 Page 1 of 11

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND
(Baltimore Division)
RENEE L. MCCRAY

*

Plaintiff

*

v.

*

WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A. et al.

*

Defendants

*

*

*

Civil Action No. GLR-13-CV1518

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

SAMUEL I WHITE PC AND SUBSTITUTE TRUSTEES REPLY TO PLAINTIFF’S
OPPOSITION TO MOTION TO DISMISS AMENDED COMPLAINT
Comes now Robert H. Hillman and Daniel J. Pesachowitz, attorneys for the Defendants,
Samuel I. White, PC (“SIWPC”), John E. Driscoll, II, Robert E. Frazier, Jana M. Gantt, Laura D.
Harris, Kimberly Lane, Deena Reynolds (that SIWPC and the individuals named are collectively
hereinafter referred to as “the SIWPC Defendants”), herein

and file their Reply to the

“Plaintiff’s Motion in Opposition to Samuel I White and Substitute Trustees Motion to Dismiss
and Summary Judgment” (referred to herein as “McCray’s Opposition.”)
INTRODUCTION
SIWPC and the Substitute Trustees set forth rather specific legal grounds which entitle
them to dismissal of all of the McCray’s claims in their Memorandum supporting their Motion to
Dismiss. It appears that McCray’s lengthy Opposition fails to substantively address the legal
arguments material to the disposition of the Motion and instead, her opposition centers on the
conclusory assertions attempting to bootstrap herself into causes of action and the debt dispute
response. She then skirts around the other issues addressed in each Defendants respective

L:\1\00621 McCray\Federal Pleadings\Reply to Plaintiff's Opposition to MTD in Renee McCray case.doc

Case 1:13-cv-01518-GLR Document 25 Filed 08/19/13 Page 2 of 11

Motions’ to Dismiss, all the while avoiding the central issue that she does not dispute her default
arising from her non-payment and that she has not sustain any damages. Her opposition takes
matters out of context and she attempts to raise matters which are fundamentally irrelevant to the
issues raised in the Motion to Dismiss.
Moreover, it is clear that McCray’s claims of illegitimate debt collection and other
consumer protection violations are constructed entirely on the fictional premise that the
Defendants have no right to enforce the provisions of the promissory note and the corresponding
recorded Deed of Trust. As pointed out by the co-Defendants in their response McCray denies
“[u]pon information and belief, [that] the Defendants [have] any interest in the Promissory Note,
whether as owner, possessor, or person with a right to enforce the Promissory Note pursuant to
UCC §3-301.” Opposition, pg. 3. However, as the Co-Defendants advance, McCray offers no
evidence or factual predicates whatsoever to contradict, or place into doubt the accuracy of, the
sworn affidavits and declarations submitted in the State of Maryland (Baltimore City Circuit
Court) foreclosure proceeding, or the authenticity of the legal documents, which establish that
Wells Fargo is the holder of the note, authorized by the investor, Freddie Mac, to hold and
enforce the note, and that the servicer had the right to appoint the substitute trustees as it has, all
of which are the basis of her contention in this action. Moreover, McCray’s own admissions,
both in her Amended Complaint, and in the correspondence she relies upon, that Wells Fargo is,
in fact, the servicer of her mortgage loan. Similarly, McCray does not deny that she is in default
under the terms of the note because of her non-payment thought she seeks to somehow qualify
her position by asserting that “[u]pon information and belief [no default exists] as a result of the
Plaintiff having refused to comply with the unsupported claims of the Defendants.” Opposition,
pg. 3.
2

Case 1:13-cv-01518-GLR Document 25 Filed 08/19/13 Page 3 of 11

As evidenced by the correspondence relied upon by the McCray to support her claims,
the lawsuit boils down to a debt elimination scheme premised on McCray’s phony dispute of the
“amount that is owed” and questionable demands for “proof” when there is no bona fide dispute
with respect to the validity of the debt. See Exhibits 3, 4 and 13 to Wells Fargo’s Motion to
Dismiss.
Finally, it is interesting that McCray presents an “Affidavit of Truth” to support her
Opposition, which Affidavit does not present any facts which are material to the adjudication of
the Motion to Dismiss (or in the alternative Motion for Summary Judgment), but merely, that
she contends that she never ‘received’ any response to her demand regarding the debt dispute.
She does not dispute that the information was the same as in the Notice of Intention to
Foreclosure, the response to her Qualified Written Request and the numerous Affidavits in the
Order to Docket.
For these reasons, this Court should grant each parties Motion as prayed.
ARGUMENT
COUNT I—FAIR DEBT COLLECTION PRACTICES ACT
As noted in Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss, the Substitute Trustees and SIWPC
(collectively referred to as the “SIWPC Defendants”), are not debt collectors within the
definitions of FDCPA. Despites the SIWPC Defendants delineating the difference to the cases
she recites, McCray does not rebut the issues and simply recites case after case without asserting
any factual basis for her contentions. McCray’s response again is to skirt around the issue of her
actual default in May of 2012 by asserting that the Substitute Trustees in acting in their fiduciary
duties are not exempt under §1692a(6)(F)(i) of the FDCPA However, as acknowledged by the

3

Case 1:13-cv-01518-GLR Document 25 Filed 08/19/13 Page 4 of 11

McCray in her June 14, 2011 correspondence (Wells Fargo‘s Exhibit 3 to its Motion to Dismiss),
Wells Fargo was already the servicer on the loan (and had been for some time). Notwithstanding
McCray’s current argument, there simply is no allegation in this case that the debt was in default
when Wells Fargo began its servicing and/or when Freddie Mac acquired its interest in the loan.
There is no allegation or proof that the debt was purchased for the purpose of collection and
there is no allegation but pure speculation that the Substitute Trustees actions, and candidly that
of SIWPC in particular, is merely incident to the enforcement against the collateral of the
recorded security instrument that is in default. Whether or not the condemnation of the collateral
applies to the repayment of the debt has yet to be seen as the foreclosure sale has not yet
occurred. In fact McCray had asked for mediation to pursue terms of a modification in the
Foreclosure State Action. It is ironic that after the mediation was sought and the delineations as
to the purpose of such mediation being very clear in the Request for Mediation, McCray
attempted to back track once this issue was raised in the Motion to Dismiss, as to why she
sought mediation, not for loan modification purposes, but in hopes of resolving the instant case.
Again the mediation request and mediation was in the State foreclosure proceeding and not in the
instant case.
Clearly the Substitute Trustees were acting to enforce the default against the collateral,
not the collection of the debt against her. The action is an in rem proceeding and not an in
persona action seeking a monetary judgment.. Indeed, the issue is really moot as there has been
no foreclosure sale and McCray is presently seeking a stay in the Circuit Court which prohibits
any foreclosure action to proceed in State Court. Clearly her goal is one of a dilatory nature to
inhibit the condemnation against the collateral, which she pledged as security for her loan. As
such, in reviewing all her pleading, nowhere does she substantiate factually that she has
4

Case 1:13-cv-01518-GLR Document 25 Filed 08/19/13 Page 5 of 11

sustained any damages under the FDCPA. Her Strict liability assertions must be tempered with
what, if any, damages she has in fact sustained. In this regard the SIWPC Defendants adopt the
Wells Fargo Defendants response on damages which applies here as well to her moot claims as
to the SIWPC Defendants.
McCray next asserts “[u]pon information and belief” the SIWPC Defendants uses unfair
or unconscionable collection methods or other false or misleading statements in the enforcement
process against the debt. First of all the SIWPC Defendants are not collecting the debt but
condemning the collateral. In this regards McCray does not assert what if any statements were
made, when and under what circumstances these statements were alleged advanced in the
“collection of the debt”. She merely recites law without any factual basis or predicate basis. As
advanced and addressed in the SIWPC Defendants Motion, McCray has not met the threshold
‘materiality consideration’ and again fails to address same in her Opposition. Again this play on
words is merely designed for delay and for no other purpose. While she asserts a claim for
damages she factually alleges none. If such improper misrepresentations were made, why does
she not address them with specificity and particularity; except for the fact that they do not exist.
Again as addressed by Wells Fargo in its response, the only remote comment dealt with the
‘legal status of the debt’, and it is undisputed that Wells Fargo is the servicer, in possession of
the original promissory note and that as indicated in the Order to Docket filed in the Circuit
Court foreclosure action validated the debt due, to whom it is owed and that McCray is in
default.(this is done in the affidavit of Debt and previously in the Notice of Intention to
Foreclose). Clearly she does not dispute these contentions, but again skirts around the issue
questioning who the real party in interest is and when they acquired the debt. Had she believed
that they were in fact erroneous, why did she not proceed when she received the Notice of
5

Case 1:13-cv-01518-GLR Document 25 Filed 08/19/13 Page 6 of 11

Intention to Foreclose in lieu of waiting until this action and the State action has progressed as it
has.
Further, as raised in the underlying Motion, McCray fails to meet the threshold on the
materiality obligation considerations and as such the Motion must be granted. McCray has not
plausibly alleged that she sustained “actual damages . . . as a result of the [alleged] failure” of
Wells Fargo to comply with RESPA’s QWR provisions. (Emphasis added) See 12 U.S.C.
§2605(f)(1)(A) or of the SIWPC Defendants in the debt dispute. In her Opposition, McCray
states that she was “inconvenienced and incurred expenses” but she fails to identify even the
general nature of such expenses, and fails to plausibly state how such expenses could have been
caused by any alleged RESPA violation, particularly when the alleged violation is simply that
the Wells Fargo was less than two months late in responding to the alleged QWR. An assertion
of damages under RESPA or FDCPA is without factual support as to how the Plaintiff was
damaged by the alleged violation is not sufficient to establish a claim.

See Ginn v.

CitiMortgage, Inc., 465 B.R. 84 (Bankr. D.S.C. 2012) and Wittenberg v. First Independent
Mortgage Company, 2011WL 1357483 (N.D.W.V 2011). See also arguments and authorities
cited by Co-Defendants in their Motion with respect to McCray’s claims of inconvenience and/or
emotional upset.
Moreover, as was the case in Derusseau v. Bank of America, 2011 WL 5975821 *4 the
Plaintiff’s, as does McCray’s, purported QWRs demanded a laundry list of information or
“proofs” without identifying the reasons she believed her account was in error, sufficiently that
Wells Fargo could identify and investigate any purported discrepancies. In fact if McCray had
not received the response to the disputed debt claim as she contends, why did she submit the
QWR asking for the revalidation of the debt. Clearly her contentions are not in line with her
6

Case 1:13-cv-01518-GLR Document 25 Filed 08/19/13 Page 7 of 11

actions that she undertook in the furtherance of the delay of enforcement against the collateral.
Even now, McCray does not allege any bona fide discrepancy in her loan, other than arguing that
the Defendants have not proven, to her satisfaction, their right to enforce the terms of the note
and Deed of Trust and the amount due and owing.
Finally McCray asserts that she did not receive the response to the debt validation letter.
The records of the SIWPC Defendants indicate that the response which need only be mailed by
regular postage pre-paid first class mail was sent. It appears that this is the same argument that
was advanced and discounted by the Maryland Courts in Jones v. Rosenberg 178 Md.App. 54,
940 A.2d 1109 FN2 (2008). McCray’s contention is that the response to the debt dispute was not
‘received’. Unfortunately, receipt is not the governing factor. As Judge Harrell held for the
Maryland Court of Appeals as to the receipt of mailing of notices in Griffin v Bierman 403 Md.
186, 941 A.2d 475 (2008) (in a case dealing with the constitutionality of the notice requirements
of the Maryland foreclosure process), that the “constitutionality of a particular procedure for
notice is assessed ex ante, rather than post hoc.” Jones v. Flowers, 547 U.S. 220, 231, 126 S.Ct.
1708, 1717, 164 L.Ed.2d 415 (2006). “The proper inquiry is whether the state acted reasonably
in selecting means likely to inform persons affected, not whether each property owner
actually received notice.” Weigner v. City of New York, 852 F.2d 646, 649 (2d
Cir.1988)(emphasis added). Id 403 Md. at 482, 941 A 2d at 197 . It is the position of Maryland
Courts that the Mail Box Rule applies to these situations. Here the contention is that the
response was ‘sent’ and there are no factual assertions contending otherwise. In McCray’s
defense, the copy of the letter that was sent to her does contain a certified mail tracking number
that does not appear to on the USPS tracking list site.

7

Case 1:13-cv-01518-GLR Document 25 Filed 08/19/13 Page 8 of 11

Based on practice and policy at the time of the mailing, it appears, and one can only
assume, that the party who hand typed the certified number on the letter may have done so
improperly. Nevertheless based upon the practices and procedures in place at the time of the
mailing of the letter at the law offices of Samuel I White PC, if the letter was uploaded as a pdf.
format into the computer system, as was the case here, on the day it was drafted, the letter was in
fact mailed - placed in the hands of the United States Post Office, that day as indicated (regular
and certified mail). Unfortunately the mailer did not check to see if any of the certified mailing
numbers had been inverted.. Indeed there is no record of the regular mail being returned and
there is no record of any certified mail (with even a different number) for this property at that
time being returned for lack of service, and thus one can only presume that they were received It
is just that the tracking number of the certified mail copy, appears to have been incorrectly typed
on this particular letter. In fact there is no obligation that certified mail be sent and it is only as a
back up to the very situation now being presented. Again the operative fact is the mailing, not
the receipt.
In any event, the very same information and validation was given to McCray and mailed
to her on October 2, 2012 in the form of an in the Maryland form issued by the Commissioner of
Financial Regulation, the required Notice of Intention to Foreclose (See Exhibit H to the Order to
Docket in the foreclosure proceeding of Exhibit 3 to SIWPC/Substitute Trustees Motion to
Dismiss). If the disputed debt response letter (which states nothing more then the debt has been
validated) was not received, why is it that the McCray thereafter sent the QWR to Wells Fargo,
asking for a revalidation of the debt and other laundry list items? Clearly this is a red herring
designed for delay as the foreclosure sale is stayed pending the response to the QWR, just what
McCray is seeking to do with the multitude of litigation and motions she has filed in this and in
8

Case 1:13-cv-01518-GLR Document 25 Filed 08/19/13 Page 9 of 11

the State Foreclosure action . Clearly, McCray has received the same information over and over
and despite her contentions that she has not received the debt validation, it is clear from the
totality of the circumstances that she has and regardless of her contentions they are not material.
Again McCray asserts and reasserts that she is just not satisfied with the responses she receives
and nothing more, as she has not be aggrieved nor damaged as previously addressed.
Furthermore, nothing presented in the Opposition plausibly supports any violation of the
FDCPA claims. As noted above, despite McCray’s assertions that she is not in default because
Defendants’ claims of ownership are “unsupported” she does not deny she is in default and she
raises no issue concerning the amount owed under the loan. There simply is no issue in this case
concerning the validity of the loan, and the Affidavits and Certifications submitted by the
Substitute Trustees as executed by the codefendant Wells Fargo in connection with the Order to
Docket foreclosure remain undisputed.1 The undisputed evidence is that Wells Fargo is the
holder of the note, and as the holder, it has a legal right to appoint the Substitute Trustees so as to
enforce rights under the Deed of Trust and to record any appointment of successor trustee so as
to carry out the foreclosure and McCray is in default of her obligations. See Deutche Bank
National Trust Company v. Brock, 430 Md. 714, 63 A.3d 40 (2013).
McCray has failed to state a plausible claim under the FDCPA, and it should be
dismissed.
COUNT II—MARYLAND CONSUMER DEBT COLLECTION ACT
McCray asserts that her MCDCA claim “mirrors her FDCPA claims.” As discussed
above, McCray has not alleged any facts which plausibly support the proposition that the debt

1

McCray has not proffered any competent evidence to contradict any fact asserted in the Affidavits and
Declarations.

9

Case 1:13-cv-01518-GLR Document 25 Filed 08/19/13 Page 10 of 11

does not exist and that the lien is not enforceable by Wells Fargo through the foreclosure.
McCray does not allege that she is current in her loan. Therefore, she is in default. Notably,
McCray makes no attempt to address the authorities relied upon by Defendants holding, in the
context of MCDCA claims, the right to initiate foreclosure proceedings arises from the
borrower’s default. Currie v. Wells Fargo Bank, 2013 WL 2295695 at *11 (D.Md. 2013);
Piotrowski v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., 2013 WL 247549 at *9 (D.Md. 2013); Stewart v.
Bierman, 859 F.Supp.2d 754, 770 (D.Md. 2012); Stovall v. Suntrust Mortgage, Inc., 2011 WL
4402680 at *9 (D.Md. 2011).
Accordingly, the Court must dismiss the claim.
COUNT III—MARYLAND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT
In her Opposition, McCray simply re-alleges her arguments made in support of Counts I
& II with no further discussion or pleading any factual predicate acts which validates the
assertion. Moreover McCray suggests to the Court that her complaint is difference from that
raised in this Courts decision (Hon. Roger Titus’) in Stewart v. Bierman, 859 F.Supp.2d 754,
770 (D.Md. 2012). In this regards she does not validate same with any counterargument, only
mere conclusion. The Stewart decision as to the SIWPC Defendants is right on point and in that
case this Court dismissed the claim against the attorneys and the substitute trustees.
McCray makes no attempt whatsoever to address the deficiencies in her Amended
Complaint noted by each of the Defendants, including her lack of plausible allegations that any
unfair or deceptive practice or misrepresentation was relied upon by her and caused her actual
injury. Stewart v. Bierman, 859 F.Supp.2d 754, 768 (D.Md.2012) citing Lloyd v. Gen. Motors
Corp., 397 Md. 108, 916 A.2d 257, 277 (Md.2007). Adams v. NVR Homes, 141 F. Supp. 2d 544,

10

Case 1:13-cv-01518-GLR Document 25 Filed 08/19/13 Page 11 of 11

546, 547 (Dist. Md. 2001). Accordingly based upon Stewart and the lack of any factual response
to the contrary, this Court must dismiss this claim.
CONCLUSION
Wherefore, for all the above reasons, Samuel I White PC and the Substitute Trustees,
John E. Driscoll, II, Robert E. Frazier, Jana M. Gantt, Laura D. Harris, Kimberly Lane, Deena
Reynolds request that their Motion to Dismiss be granted or in the alternative, that the Court
grant Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment.
Respectfully submitted,
Samuel I. White, PC
/s/ Robert H. Hillman
Robert H. Hillman, MD 06910
/s/ Daniel J. Pesachowitz
Daniel J. Pesachowitz MD14930
611 Rockville Pike #100
Rockville, MD 20852
301-804-3385
Fax 301-838-1954
rhilllman@siwpc.com
dpeascho@siwpc.com
Attorney for Samuel I White
P.C. and the SIWPC Individuals
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify on this 19th day of August, 2013, that a copy of the foregoing Reply of
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Freddie Mac to McCray’s Opposition to Motion to Dismiss (or in
the alternative Motion for Summary Judgment), was filed via CM/ECF and served by U.S. Mail,
postage prepaid, first class to the following:
Renee L. McCray
109 Edgewood Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21229
/s/ Robert H. Hillman
Robert H. Hillman

11

