Case 1:14-cv-00337-M-LDA Document 28 Filed 03/02/16 Page 1 of 9 PageID #: 374

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND

JARREN GENDREAU,
Plaintiff
v.
TOWN OF BRISTOL, et. al.,
Defendants

:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

C.A. No.: 1:14-CV-00337-M-LDA

MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT OF PLAINTIFF’S
OBJECTION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
I.

ARGUMENT
A. This matter is not barred by res judicata.
Defendants assert that the Plaintiff’s “abandon[ed] appeal” precludes his suit in the instant

matter. But defendants mischaracterize both the nature of judicial review of permitting decisions
under R.I. Gen. Laws 11-47-11, and the import of the Rhode Island Supreme Court’s order in the
prior litigation.
Arguing that Res judicata attaches to the decisions of administrative agencies that act in a
quasi-judicial capacity – that is when they provide the parties with “substantially the same rights
as those available in a court of law, such as the opportunity to present evidence, to assert legal
claims, and defenses, and to appeal from an adverse decision” – Defendants contend that res
judicata bars the Plaintiff’s claims in this court. Town of Richmond v. Wawaloam Reservation,
Inc., 850 A. 2d 924, 933 (R.I. 2004). Yet, though Plaintiff was afforded an opportunity to be
interviewed, he was not afforded “substantially the same rights as those available in a court of law”
in seeking to be issued a permit. These procedural requirements, made applicable to most other
administrative actions adjudicated through rhode island administrative agencies by the Rhode

Case 1:14-cv-00337-M-LDA Document 28 Filed 03/02/16 Page 2 of 9 PageID #: 375

Island Rhode Island Administrative Procedures Act’s “contested case”1 provisions, do not apply
to permit decisions. G.L.1956 § 42-35-15, et. seq.; See Mosby v. Devine, 851 A. 2d 1031, 1035
(RI 2004). As such a rule of administrative finality does not attach to concealed carry permit
decisions. See e.g. Gadomski v. Tavares, 113 A. 3d 387, 392 (R.I. 2015) (specifically directing the
licensing authority in that case to take into account any additional supplemental materials in reaching a
decision).

Moreover, even if a rule of administrative finality did apply is would not serve as a res
judiciata bar on this action as the Rhode Island Supreme Court’s grant of certiorari as to the first
decision denying Plaintiff’s permit should not be construed to invoke an identity of the issues or
the presence of a final judgment. "[R]es judicata operates as an absolute bar to a cause of action
[when] there exists `(1) identity of parties, (2) identity of issues and (3) finality of judgment.'"
Rhode Island Student Loan Authority v. NELS, Inc., 600 A.2d 717, 720 (R.I.1991). When invoked,
res judicata, also known as claim or defense preclusion, renders a previous judgment conclusive
with respect to any claims or defenses that a party raised or could have raised in the previous
proceeding. See Id. Furthermore, a plaintiff bringing successive actions against the same defendant
can invoke res judicata to preclude the defendant from asserting defenses that were raised or that
could have been raised in the first proceeding. 18 Charles Alan Wright, Arthur R. Miller & Edward
H. Cooper, Federal Practice and Procedure: Civil 2d § 4414 at 344-51 (2002).
Here, admittedly, the Plaintiff’s original petition to the Rhode Island Supreme Court sought
to have the Chief’s decision denying the permit overturned on several theories including the

1

The APA's judicial review provision provides that: "[a]ny person who has exhausted all
administrative remedies available to him within the agency, and who is aggrieved by a final order
in a contested case is entitled to judicial review under this chapter." Section 42-35-15(a). The APA
defines a contested case as "a proceeding, including but not restricted to ratemaking, price fixing,
and licensing, in which the legal rights, duties, or privileges of a specific party are required by law
to be determined by an agency after an opportunity for hearing." Section 42-35-1(c).

Case 1:14-cv-00337-M-LDA Document 28 Filed 03/02/16 Page 3 of 9 PageID #: 376

inadequacy of the written decision and constitutional arguments. However, the Rhode Island
Supreme Court choose grant the petition and quash the original decision based on the inadequacy
of the written decision itself, without addressing any of the constitutional claims raised with respect
to the first decision denying plaintiff’s permit. The language of the order matters, and while the
court indicates that it shall retain jurisdiction, it also indicates that the petitioner “may invoke the
Court’s jurisdiction by filing an amended petition for writ of certiorari in the same docket within
thirty (30) days of the issuance of respondent’s decision.” See Ex. E. (emphasis added). It is an
axiomatic principle of statutory construction that the use of the term "may" denotes a permissive,
rather than an imperative, condition. See Quality Court Condominium Association v. Quality Hill
Development Corp., 641 A.2d 746, 751 (R.I.1994) ("[T]he use of the word `may' rather than the
word `shall' indicates a discretionary rather than a mandatory provision.") (citing Carlson v.
McLyman, 77 R.I. 177, 182, 74 A.2d 853, 855 (1950) (noting that "the ordinary meaning of the
word `may' is permissive and not compulsive")). Importantly, the court’s order goes on to specify,
“[n]o additional filing fee will be required.” Though the Court’s order gives leave to the Plaintiff
to amend his petition, nothing in the order suggests that the court will take up the amended petition,
or address any claims raised therein. Certiorari is not the equivalent of a general right of appeal.
“Certiorari is a prerogative writ and its issuance and the accompanying relief it provides are
discretionary and not a matter of right. In re: Little, 237 A.2d 325, 328 (RI 1968).
Rule 13 of the Rhode Island Supreme Court Rules of Appellate Procedure sets forth the
process by which an aggrieved party seeks the issuance of a Writ of Certiorari:

Rule 13. Extraordinary Writs (a) Petition for Issuance of Writ. Other
than for habeas corpus and except where otherwise provided for by
statute a proceeding seeking the issuance of an extraordinary writ
shall be by petition. The petition shall include (1) a concise
statement of the case containing the facts material to consideration

Case 1:14-cv-00337-M-LDA Document 28 Filed 03/02/16 Page 4 of 9 PageID #: 377

of the questions presented in sufficient detail as to enable the
Supreme Court to determine the desirability of issuance of the writ;
(2) a statement setting forth with particularity why the relief sought
is not available in any other court, or cannot be had through other
appellate processes, including whether a notice of appeal has been
filed with the Court and why that is not sufficient; and (3) a copy of
any order or opinion which the petitioner seeks to have reviewed
and any other parts of the record which may be essential to an
understanding of the matters set forth in the petition. A
memorandum shall be appended to the petition stating the grounds
relied upon by the petitioner, together with citations of the
authorities in support thereof. The petitioner shall serve upon all
other parties a copy of said petition and memorandum. The
petitioner shall file the original and nine (9) copies of the petition
and memorandum in the office of the clerk of the Supreme Court
and shall pay to the clerk a filing fee of one hundred fifty dollars
($150) per petitioner.
Rhode Island Supreme Court rules also make clear that unlike a denied appeal, the denial of a
petition for certiorari does not operate as an adjudication on the merits.

(e) Order Granting or Denying Petition. Upon the granting or
denying of a petition, an appropriate order will be entered and the
clerk shall give notice thereof to all parties. . . . A denial of a petition,
without more, is not an adjudication on the merits and has no
precedential effect, and such action is to be taken as being without
prejudice to a further application to this Court or any court for the
relief sought.
It follows that a party’s choice to decline to invoke the court’s jurisdiction over a new
administrative decision that results from the court’s orders likewise could not operate as an
adjudication on the merits. The petition before the Rhode Island Supreme Court related only to the
prior decision, not to the Chief’s subsequent denial.
Huntley v. State, 63 A.3d 526, 532 (R.I. 2013) cited by the Defendants is not controlling.
In Huntley, the Plaintiff filed her initial claims for employment discrimination in this Honorable
Court, a trial court competent to exercise original jurisdiction over her employment discrimination
claims. After this court dismissed Huntley’s claims on Defendant’s motion she refiled the claims

Case 1:14-cv-00337-M-LDA Document 28 Filed 03/02/16 Page 5 of 9 PageID #: 378

in the Rhode Island Superior Court. The Rhode Island Supreme Court held that her failure to
prosecute her claims in the federal forum precluded her ability to bring the action in the state trial
court. In contrast to Huntley, Plaintiff had no right to be heard on the claims raised in the complaint
filed in this court.
The issue of the closed status on the docket sheet and the court’s “retained jurisdiction” are
also of no moment to this court’s consideration of the Plaintiff’s claims. The Rhode Island Supreme
Court’s choice to retain jurisdiction was designed to accomplish nothing more than offer the
Plaintiff an opportunity to seek to amend his petition without incurring the additional expense of
another filing fee, and provide a mechanism to ensure that a new decision detailing the chief’s
rationale was in fact rendered. A review of cases in which the Rhode Island Supreme Court has
retained jurisdiction of granted petitions for certiorari reveals an apparent concern about requiring
a once aggrieved plaintiff to pay twice to seek the court’s discretionary review of administrative
action. See e.g., Cullen v. Town Council of Lincoln, 850 A. 2d 900, 906 (RI 2004) (“This Court
shall retain jurisdiction over the case while the council complies with our basic requirements[]” to
submit findings of fact and conclusions of law that can be reviewed); Cranston Print Works Co. v.
City of Cranston, 684 A. 2d 689 (where municipality has failed to produce a reviewable zoning
decision “. . . this Court defers action on the petition for certiorari but will retain jurisdiction
during the ninety day period that the case is before the council.”). In contrast the court’s retention
of jurisdiction in cases reviewing judicial action suggests an intent to conduct a further review or
issue additional orders See Cunha v. Carol Cable Co., Inc., 634 A. 2d 1171, 1173 (RI 1993) (in a
workers compensation case the court directed that “the case is remanded to the Workers'
Compensation Court, Appellate Division, with our direction that it remand the case to the trial
judge for findings of fact and legal determinations supportive of the decree that was entered. We

Case 1:14-cv-00337-M-LDA Document 28 Filed 03/02/16 Page 6 of 9 PageID #: 379

retain jurisdiction, and on the completion of these procedures, the matter will be returned for our
consideration.”) Thus it is clear that if the Rhode Island Supreme Court intended to substantively
review the Chief’s second decision for any of the constitutional claims plaintiff asserted in his
original petition, it could have fashioned an order to do so. Instead, the choice to fashion a
permissive order by the Rhode Island Supreme Court left the issue of whether to invoke the court’s
jurisdiction and seek review by that court or in another forum up to the Plaintiff. Because Plaintiff
did not seek to amend his petition before the Rhode Island Supreme Court, its jurisdiction was
never invoked and review of the Chief’s second decision cannot be barred by res judicata.
Accordingly, this Honorable court should find that Plaintiff’s claims are not barred by res judicata
and proceed to address the merits of his constitutional claims.

B. The Level of Scrutiny to be applied to permitting decisions in the First
Circuit is a question of First Impression.
The Defendants point out that plaintiff fails to cite any First Circuit precedent for his
position that the Chief’s decision violates Plainitff’s Second Amendment rights and seemingly
argues that any claim that plaintiff’s Second Amendment rights were violated by a licensing
decision cannot withstand scrutiny under the First Circuit’s decision in Hightower v. City of
Boston, 693 F. 3d 61, 61 (1st Cir. 2012). But the level of scrutiny to be applied to Second
Amendment permitting claims within the First Circuit remains a question of first impression. See
Powell v. Tompkins, 783 F.3d 332 (1st Cir. 2015) (“[t]his circuit has yet to weigh in on ‘the
scope of the Second Amendment as to carrying firearms outside the vicinity of the home without
any reference to protection of the home.’) (internal citation omitted).
Hightower v. City of Boston, 693 F. 3d 61, 61 (1st Cir. 2012) cited by the Defendants is
not to the contrary. Rather, Hightower stands for the unremarkable proposition that applicants for

Case 1:14-cv-00337-M-LDA Document 28 Filed 03/02/16 Page 7 of 9 PageID #: 380

concealed carry permits must be truthful in their applications to local licensing authorities. As
the Hightower court explained “Hightower attacks many provisions of the statute, but her key
focus is on what she contends is the inherent subjectivity of the "suitability" requirement and its
inadequacy as a standard. However, Hightower's license was not revoked because of a general
finding that she was not "suitable," but rather because of a particular determination that she
“completed the application form untruthfully.’” 693 F. 3d 61, 76 (1st Cir. 2012) The Court went
on to hold that “. . . the revocation of a firearms license on the basis of providing false
information as to the existence of pending complaints or charges on the firearms license
application form is not a violation of the Second Amendment in this case.” Id. Moreover,
Hightower fails to shed any light on the appropriate level of scrutiny to be applied to Second
Amendment claims within the First Circuit. Explaining that because Hightower’s claim “fail[ed]
whatever standard of scrutiny is used, even assuming there is some Second Amendment interest
in carrying the concealed weapons at issue.” The court made clear that it “d[id] not reach the
question of what standard of scrutiny applies here” and instead cited with agreement the 4th
Circuit’s “cautionary holding in United States v. Masciandaro, that we should not engage in
answering the question of how Heller applies to possession of firearms outside of the home,
including as to "what sliding scales of scrutiny might apply." . . . As he said, the whole matter is
a "vast terra incognita that courts should enter only upon necessity and only then by small
degree." Id (internal citation omitted). Accordingly, for the reasons argued by Plaintiff in his
Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment,
this Honorable court should find that the Plaintiff’s Second Amendment rights were violated by
the Chief’s second decision denying Plaintiff a concealed carry permit.

Case 1:14-cv-00337-M-LDA Document 28 Filed 03/02/16 Page 8 of 9 PageID #: 381

C. The Defendants’ reliance on any local permitting policy is ultra vires, and
expressly preempted by the Rhode Island Firearms Act.
Defendants’ contention that the Town acted within its authority when promulgating rules
for the issuance of permits is without merit and ignores both the plain language of R.I. Gen.
Laws § 11-47-58 and the Rhode Island Supreme Court’s interpretations of R.I. Gen. Laws § 1147-11. A municipal ordinance or policy is preempted by statute “when either the language in the
ordinance contradicts the language in the statute or when the [General Assembly] has intended to
thoroughly occupy the field.” Coastal Recycling, Inc. v. Connors, 854 A.2d 711, 715 (R.I.2004)
(internal quotation marks omitted); see also URI Student Senate v. Town of Narragansett, 631
F.3d 1, 7 (1st Cir.2011) (applying principles of Rhode Island law regarding preemption);
Amico's Inc. v. Mattos, 789 A.2d 899, 907 (R.I.2002).

See generally 1A Norman J. Singer &

J.D. Shambie Singer, Sutherland Statutes and Statutory Construction § 30:1 at 658 (7th
ed.2009).
As an agent of a municipality, the scope of a licensing authority’s authority is wholly a
function of state law. In Marro v. General Treasurer of City of Cranston, 108 R.I. 192, 273 A.2d
660 (R.I. 1971), the Rhode Island Supreme Court held that a “municipal corporation, in the
absence of a special constitutional provision, was a creature of the state having no inherent right
of self-government and deriving all of its authorities and powers from its creator.” Marro, 273
A.2d at 660 (citing City of Providence v. Moulton, 52 R.I. 236, 160 A.2d 75, (R.I. 1932)).
Neither Rhode Island General Laws, Section 11-47-11 nor any other provision of the Firearms
Act extends authority to local licensing authorities to issue regulations, policies, or other
administrative gloss on the acts clear shall issue requirement and such action is expressly
preempted by R.I. Gen. Laws § 11-47-58. Consequently, Defendants are utterly without the
authority adopt a local policy that runs counter to the intent of R.I. Gen. Laws § 11-47-11 as

Case 1:14-cv-00337-M-LDA Document 28 Filed 03/02/16 Page 9 of 9 PageID #: 382

discussed in Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Plaintiff’s Motion
for Summary Judgment.
II.

CONCLUSION

For the foregoing reasons, and those argued in Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and Authorities
in Support of Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment, which is incorporated herein by
reference, Plaintiff asserts that there are no genuine issues of material fact left to be determined
by trial of this matter, and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Accordingly,
Plaintiff requests that the Honorable Court deny Defendants Motion for Summary Judgement
and Grant Summary Judgment for the Plaintiff.
Dated: 3/2/2016

Plaintiff, Jarren Ray Gendreau,
By and through his Attorney,
/s/Matthew L. Fabisch
______________________________
Matthew L. Fabisch
(R.I. Fed. Bar # 8017)
664 Pearl Street
Brockton, MA 02301
(Tel) 401-324-9344
(Fax) 401-354-7883
Email: Fabisch@Fabischlaw.com
CERTIFICATION

I hereby certify that on this 2nd day of March 2016, Memorandum of Points and Authorities in
Support of Plaintiff’s Objection to Defendants Motion to Dismiss was caused to be sent
electronically through the CM/ECF system to the following:

Michael A. Ursillo, Esq.

/s/Matthew L. Fabisch

mikeursillo@utrlaw.com, gwendolynbruno@utrlaw.com

