UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN
MILWAUKEE DIVISION
WILLIAM SCHMALFELDT,
Case No. 2:15-cv-01516-NJ
Plaintiff,
v.
SARAH PALMER, ET AL.,
Defendants.
JOINT OPPOSITION TO THE PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL
(DOCKET #18) AND MOTION TO STRIKE THE SAME
NOW COME Defendants Sarah Palmer and Eric Johnson, by their counsel Aaron J.
Walker, Esq., in the above-styled case for the sole purpose of challenging personal and subject
matter jurisdiction and service of process, without waiving any rights of jurisdiction, notice,
process, service of process, joinder, or venue. They hereby file this Joint Opposition to the
Plaintiff’s Motion to Disqualify Counsel (Docket #18) and Motion to Strike the Same and state
the following:
1.

On March 7, 2016, the Plaintiff filed a “Motion to Disqualify Defendant’s [sic]

Attorney, Aaron Justin Walker, for Alleged Violations of the DC Bar Association Rules of
Proffesional [sic] Conduct, as Well as the Fact He is Likely to be Called as a Witness by the
Plaintiff, or Joined as a Defendant” (Docket #18) (hereinafter “MTDQ”). In his motion the
Plaintiff argued that undersigned counsel should be disqualified 1) because of alleged falsehoods
in the “Memorandum of Law in Support of the Joint Motion to Dismiss and Opposition to Leave
to Amend Filed by Defendants Sarah Palmer and Eric Johnson” (Docket # 12) (hereinafter the

Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 1 of 22 Document 19

“Joint Memorandum of Law”), 2) because of alleged other misstatements out of court, and 3)
because undersigned counsel might suddenly be a witness or a party.

All three of these

contentions are without merit. Further, this motion should be stricken as nothing more than a
naked attempt to prejudice this Court with irrelevant ad hominem attacks against counsel.
I.
THE PLAINTIFF HAS OFFERED NO VALID JUSTIFICATION TO DISQUALIFY
COUNSEL
2.

The Plaintiff’s MTDQ should be denied because there is no basis for it, factually

or legally. The rule against attorneys acting as witnesses does not apply to these present facts.
Further, the Plaintiff has not demonstrated that the undersigned counsel made any false
statements to this Court. Finally, the Plaintiff cites a non-rule to attempt to argue that out of
court alleged falsehoods justify disqualification and then goes on to falsely accuse the
undersigned counsel of publishing falsehoods. For all of these reasons, the MTDQ should be
denied.
A.

The Rule Against an Attorney Being Involved in a Case Where He is Likely to be a
Witness only Applies to Trials and Necessary Witnesses
3.

First, the Plaintiff argues that the D.C. CODE OF PROF’L CONDUCT R. 3.7 bars the

undersigned from serving as counsel. It reads as follows:
(a)

A lawyer shall not act as advocate at a trial in which the
lawyer is likely to be a necessary witness except where:
(1)

The testimony relates to an uncontested issue;

(2)

The testimony relates to the nature and value of
legal services rendered in the case; or

(3)

Disqualification of the lawyer
substantial hardship on the client.

would

work

2
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 2 of 22 Document 19

This language is virtually identical to the language found in WIS. CODE

OF

PROF’L CONDUCT

R. 3.7. The Plaintiff reasons from this that because the undersigned counsel may eventually be a
witness, he cannot represent Defendants Palmer and Johnson at this point in the case. There are
several problems with that.
4.

First, the plain language of this rule states that the rule only applies at trial. That

is precisely how this Court read the Wisconsin rule in Olson v. Bemis Co., Case No. 12-C-1126
(E.D. Wis. April 26, 2013).

Olson concerned a suit surrounding a collective bargaining

agreement, and the Plaintiff was represented by Peter Culp, Esq. The defendants in that case
sought to disqualify Mr. Culp and his firm from representing Olson because Mr. Culp had helped
negotiate the collective bargaining agreement at issue. This Court held, however, that Mr. Culp
could continue to personally represent Mr. Olson at every stage prior to trial even if Mr. Culp
was deposed during discovery, because the rule only applied to trials. Applied to the instant
facts, the Plaintiff’s motion is meritless because this case is still at the pleading stage, and it is
very likely to be dismissed on jurisdictional grounds.
5.

Second, the Plaintiff cannot show that counsel is likely to be a validly-called

witness. At best, the Plaintiff speculates that
it is entirely possible that during the discovery phase of this trial, Plaintiff will
learn more about Mr. Walker’s involvement in the alleged defamation by
Defendants, and he could be called as a witness or even be added to the list of
defendants.1

1

The Plaintiff’s claim that undersigned counsel might be added as a defendant is plainly a ploy
to attempt to disqualify the undersigned as counsel and perhaps to intimidate him. The Plaintiff
has claimed that the undersigned has defamed him for years, but it is only after the undersigned
filed a motion to dismiss in this case, threatening the future of this litigation, that the Plaintiff
suddenly decides the undersigned might potentially be a defendant. The Plaintiff, in essence,
believes that he should be allowed to veto these Defendants’ decision to hire Mr. Walker as
counsel with a strategic decision to name the undersigned as a Defendant. The Plaintiff should
not be allowed to do this.
3
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 3 of 22 Document 19

MTDQ, p. 4. This comes nowhere near the plain language of Rule 3.7, which requires a showing
of likelihood.
6.

Third, is it not clear on the face of the pleadings that the undersigned is a

necessary witness to any of the events of this case as required by Rule 3.7. This entire case is
based on what people have said, mainly on the Internet, about the Plaintiff. Eric Johnson lives in
Tennessee, Sarah Palmer lives in North Carolina, and undersigned counsel lives in Virginia. It
should not be surprising to this Court that counsel did not witness the Defendants posting
anything on the Internet, making any phone calls, sending any emails, or engaging in other forms
of communication that might or might not have occurred.

So, outside of privileged

communications, counsel doesn’t have any more knowledge about what these Defendants wrote
and said than any other member of the general public (for instance, by reading what was
allegedly written by the Defendants on various public websites). In Olson, this Court noted that
Mr. Culp might not be the only witness to relevant events and, therefore, might not be a
necessary witness. Id. at *6-7. Applied here, the Plaintiff has made absolutely no showing that
counsel has any non-privileged information relevant to this case that is possessed only by
counsel making him a necessary witness.
7.

Finally, even if counsel was likely to be a necessary witness, disqualification of

counsel would work a substantial hardship on these Defendants. As stated in the attached
Declarations of Aaron Walker and Sarah Palmer, the undersigned counsel is the only pro bono
attorney available at this time. Depriving them of the undersigned counsel would effectively
strip Mrs. Palmer of having any attorney at all.2

2

Mr. Johnson, meanwhile, would be required to pay thousands of dollars to defend his right to
“free” speech, to his prejudice.
4
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 4 of 22 Document 19

8.

In Powell v. Alabama, 287 U.S. 45, 68-69 (1932), the Supreme Court expounded

on the usefulness of counsel as follows:
The right to be heard would be, in many cases, of little avail if it did not
comprehend the right to be heard by counsel. Even the intelligent and educated
layman has small and sometimes no skill in the science of law. If charged with
crime, he is incapable, generally, of determining for himself whether the
indictment is good or bad. He is unfamiliar with the rules of evidence. Left
without the aid of counsel he may be put on trial without a proper charge, and
convicted upon incompetent evidence, or evidence irrelevant to the issue or
otherwise inadmissible. He lacks both the skill and knowledge adequately to
prepare his defense, even though he have a perfect one. He requires the guiding
hand of counsel at every step in the proceedings against him. Without it, though
he be not guilty, he faces the danger of conviction because he does not know how
to establish his innocence.
While the stakes for these Defendants are not as high and the need is not as dire as they were for
the “Scotsboro Boys,” the Defendants’ finances and their right to express themselves freely is on
the line and, without counsel, they risk losing both—despite the fact that they have done no
wrong. Accordingly, taking away from these Defendants the only pro bono attorney available to
them would be a substantial hardship.
9.

In summary, Rule 3.7 doesn’t apply to the facts of this case. It doesn’t apply

because this case is not yet in trial and because the Plaintiff has not shown that the undersigned
counsel is likely to be a necessary witness. Finally, even if the rule did apply, the undersigned
counsel should still be allowed to represent these defendants because it would impose a
substantial hardship on these Defendants if he were disqualified. Accordingly, the Plaintiff’s
argument based on Rule 3.7 is meritless, and his motion should be denied.
B.

Undersigned Counsel Has Not Made False Statements in the Joint Memorandum of
Law (Docket # 12)
10.

A second reason why the Plaintiff claims disqualification is justified is because

the undersigned allegedly made two misrepresentations in relation to non-party Brett Kimberlin

5
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 5 of 22 Document 19

in the Joint Memorandum of Law. Specifically, on page 13 of the Joint Memorandum of Law,
undersigned counsel wrote the following:
Turning back to the lone phone conversation, Mr. Johnson also denies the
allegation in paragraph 39 of the original complaint that he called the Plaintiff a
terrorist—he only noted that Mr. Schmalfeldt is associated with the convicted
terrorist Brett Kimberlin. See, e.g., Kimberlin v. White, 7 F.3d 527, 528-29 (6th
Cir. 1993) (detailing how Mr. Kimberlin bombed a town for nearly a week,
costing one man his life).
The Plaintiff claims that two alleged falsehoods are packed into this passage: first, that Brett
Kimberlin is a “convicted terrorist,” and, second, that Mr. Kimberlin’s bombing campaign cost a
man his life.3
11.

As an initial matter, it is permissible to refer to Mr. Kimberlin as a “convicted

terrorist.” By way of background, this is how the Sixth Circuit described Mr. Kimberlin’s
bombing campaign:
Kimberlin was convicted as the so-called “Speedway Bomber,” who terrorized
the city of Speedway, Indiana, by detonating a series of explosives in early
September 1978. In the worst incident, Kimberlin placed one of his bombs in a
gym bag, and left it in a parking lot outside Speedway High School. Carl Delong
was leaving the high school football game with his wife when he attempted to
pick up the bag and it exploded. The blast tore off his lower right leg and two
fingers, and embedded bomb fragments in his wife’s leg. He was hospitalized for
six weeks, during which he was forced to undergo nine operations to complete the
amputation of his leg, reattach two fingers, repair damage to his inner ear, and
remove bomb fragments from his stomach, chest, and arm. In February 1983, he
committed suicide.
Kimberlin v. White, 7 F.3d 527, 528-29 (6th Cir. 1993) (emphasis added). Most people would
believe that the crimes Mr. Kimberlin was convicted of—detonating eight bombs in six days
under circumstances that “involved [a] substantial risk of devastating personal injury to innocent

3

The Plaintiff admits that he is friends with Mr. Kimberlin on page 1 of his MTDQ as follows:
“Mr. Walker makes the provably false statement that Plaintiff’s friend, Mr. Brett Kimberlin of
Bethesda, Maryland is ‘a convicted terrorist.’”
6
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 6 of 22 Document 19

by-standers,”4—amounts to terrorism.5

While it is true that the statutes under which Mr.

Kimberlin was convicted didn’t label the crimes he committed “terrorism,”6 often statutory titles
do not reflect common names. For instance, in Wisconsin if one has sex with a person without
his or her consent, that person can be convicted of “sexual assault” in violation of Wis. Stat. §
940.225. Most people, however, call that rape. Would the Plaintiff have this Court disqualify an
attorney who referred to a person convicted under § 940.225 as a “convicted rapist?”
12.

Meanwhile, the Plaintiff’s claim that it is false to state that Mr. Kimberlin’s

bombs cost a man’s life is even more ridiculous. The Plaintiff writes that:
A person was, in fact, terribly injured in that bombing, which resulted in the amputation
of a leg. But it wasn’t the bombing that killed him. It was the carbon monoxide from his
car engine in a closed garage by which he intentionally took his own life in 1983, five
years after the bombing. Thus the claim that Mr. Kimberlin’s act cost this unfortunate
man his life is incorrect[.]
This callous assessment of the cause of Mr. DeLong’s death closely reflects the interpretation
that Mr. Kimberlin himself asserted in Kimberlin v. DeLong, 637 NE 2d 121, (Ind. Sup. Ct.
1994). In that case, Sandra DeLong, the widow of Carl DeLong, sued Mr. Kimberlin for both
causing both her own injuries and her husband’s suicide. “[A] jury trial resulted in judgments
against defendant-appellant Brett Coleman Kimberlin in the sum of $360,000 for personal
injuries to Sandra Sue DeLong and $1,250,000 for the wrongful death of Carl David DeLong.”
Id. at 123. Mr. Kimberlin argued before the Indiana Supreme Court that the suicide was an

4

Kimberlin v. White, 798 F. Supp. 472, 474 (W.D. Tenn. 1992)
Kimberlin v. Walker, Case Nos. 1553, 2099 and 0365 (Md. App. 2016) is also relevant on this
point. In that case, Mr. Kimberlin sued the undersigned counsel and three others for allegedly
defaming him as follows: “Mr. Kimberlin claimed that the Appellees falsely portrayed him as
‘engaging in criminal activity, being a pedophile, rapist and domestic terrorist[.]” See Exhibit A.
As noted in the Maryland Court of Special Appeals decision, Mr. Kimberlin lost on the issue of
truth.
6
The U.S. Code doesn’t appear to have had a statute defining terrorism before 18 U.S.C. § 2331
was adopted in 1992.
5

7
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 7 of 22 Document 19

intervening cause of Mr. DeLong’s death, and, therefore, he was not responsible as a matter of
law for Mr. DeLong’s suicide. The Indiana Supreme Court brushed this argument aside and
affirmed his liability for Mr. DeLong’s death by modifying the common law of Indiana so that
suicide was no longer considered an intervening cause of death from an intentional tort such as
this as follows:
In the present case, the complaint alleged intentional injury. Kimberlin’s federal
criminal conviction ... establishes his conduct as malicious and thus intentional
rather than negligent. Moreover, Carl’s DeLong’s death, although occurring more
than four years after the explosion, was within the scope of harm intended by
Kimberlin’s intentional criminal conduct. Under such circumstances, we decline
to treat suicide as independent intervening cause protecting a highly culpable
defendant from liability for his victim’s death. We hold that an action may be
maintained for death or injury from a suicide or suicide attempt where a
defendant’s willful tortious conduct was intended to cause a victim physical harm
and where the intentional tort is a substantial factor in bringing about the suicide.
Id. at 128-29. In short, Mr. Kimberlin is responsible for Carl DeLong’s death as verified by the
Indiana Supreme Court. Therefore, the undersigned counsel’s statement was correct.
13.

More fundamentally, the Plaintiff does not cite any law or rule that says that if an

attorney makes one false statement (or two) she must be disqualified from appearing in a case.
He cites the District of Columbia’s Rules of Professional Conduct, but that doesn’t suggest a rule
of automatic disqualification in a particular case. Therefore, the Plaintiff has not asserted any
factual basis for disqualification or any legal basis for disqualification. For this reason the
Plaintiff’s motion should be denied because it is frivolous.
C.

Undersigned Counsel’s Comments Unrelated to Any Case Before This Court Do Not
Disqualify Him as Defense Counsel.
14.

In the second section of the Plaintiff’s MTDQ, the Plaintiff cites a non-rule,

writing the following heading “VIOLATIONS OF THE ABA MODEL CODE OF
PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY” and then quoting the following alleged rule:

8
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 8 of 22 Document 19

EC 9-6 “Every lawyer owes a solemn duty to uphold the integrity and honor of his
profession; to encourage respect for the law and for the courts and the judges thereof; to
observe the Code of Professional Responsibility; to act as a member of a learned
profession, one dedicated to public service; to cooperate with his brother lawyers in
supporting the organized bar through the devoting of his time, efforts, and financial
support as his professional standing and ability reasonably permit; to conduct himself so
as to reflect credit on the legal profession and to inspire the confidence, respect, and trust
of his clients and of the public; and to strive to avoid not only professional impropriety
but also the appearance of impropriety.
In fact, what the Plaintiff is citing is not a rule and has never been a rule. First, the ABA model
rules are not rules in and of themselves. Second, the Code of Professional Responsibility has
been abolished in each of the jurisdictions implicated by counsel’s representation: Virginia, the
District of Columbia, and Wisconsin. Third, what the Plaintiff has cited is Ethical Consideration
9-6.

As stated in the Preliminary Statement to the ABA Model Code of Professional

Responsibility, such considerations are “aspirational” and that “[t]he Disciplinary Rules, unlike
the Ethical Considerations, are mandatory in character.” What the Plaintiff has cited is at best an
ideal, not a rule.
15.

The Plaintiff then uses this non-rule as an excuse to engage in a broadly based ad

hominem attack on the undersigned counsel’s character in general. It would take a two hundred
page motion and a mini-trial to fully rebut the stream of falsehoods the Plaintiff and his declarant
write, but the untrustworthiness of the Plaintiff’s presentation can be shown with relative ease.
In short, the Plaintiff’s ad hominem attacks on undersigned counsel as having defamed him is
legally irrelevant and false.
A.

The Plaintiff Falsely Claims that Undersigned Counsel has Defamed Him.
16.

In the MTDQ and its exhibits, the Plaintiff repeatedly and falsely accused the

undersigned counsel of making false accusations against him outside of a courtroom context. In
the MTDQ, for instance, the Plaintiff accuses counsel of falsely accusing the Plaintiff of making

9
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 9 of 22 Document 19

a rape threat. Meanwhile, Exhibit 4 to the MTDQ is described by the Plaintiff as “Defamatory
Tweets7 from Defendant’s Counsel Aaron Walker About Plaintiff Going Back to 2013.”
MTDQ, Exhibit 4, p. 1. Thus, the Plaintiff is representing to this Court that each and every one
of these messages are defamatory. However, each and every message he quoted has a basis in
fact—aside from those which are obviously pure jokes not to be read as serious statements of
fact. While this Court surely doesn’t want to have a “mini-trial” regarding each and every
negative statement the undersigned counsel has made about the Plaintiff, there are a few
instances where the proof is relatively easy to obtain.
17.

For instance, one of the more bizarre examples of the so-called defamation is

found on page 3 of the Plaintiff’s Exhibit 4, where the Plaintiff accurately quotes counsel as
asking a third party named Roger Shuler, “did you ever denounce your friend Bill Schmalfeldt
for seeking a prior restraint on his ‘enemies?’” The most ridiculous element of that accusation is
that the Plaintiff apparently is asserting that it is defamation to say that he has sought a prior
restraint on freedom of expression in a document filed in this case where he is presently seeking
a prior restraint on freedom of expression. Even if the accusation that he was seeking a prior
restraint was untrue when counsel first said it, it is true now.
18.

Further, it was true when counsel wrote it. This can be determined by examining

publicly available court records. The message accusing the Plaintiff of seeking a prior restraint
on freedom of expression was written on July 23, 2015. Earlier that month, on July 2, 2015, the
instant Plaintiff filed an amended complaint in Schmalfeldt v. Grady, et al. (I), Case No. 1:15-cv01241-RDB (D. Md. 2015)8 (Document #13 in that case), one of many cases the Plaintiff has
filed alleging harm by the expression of the various defendants. On page 12 of that amended
7
8

A “Tweet” is a short message, delivered via Twitter, to the world at large.
This case is the second case styled Schmalfeldt v. Grady, et al.
10
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 10 of 22 Document 19

complaint, the same Plaintiff sought “[a]n order enjoining defendants from engaging in further
harassment.” Since the alleged harassment consisted primarily of writing things the instant
Plaintiff didn’t like in Internet postings to the world at large, this request amounted to seeking a
prior restraint on those defendants’ freedom of expression. Nor was this the only example of the
instant Plaintiff filing lawsuits in order to try to silence his critics by equitable relief. Thus, what
counsel wrote was true at the time it was written.
19.

On page 25 of Exhibit 4, the Plaintiff accurately quotes undersigned counsel as

accusing the Plaintiff of “racistly” insulting the undersigned counsel’s wife.

By way of

background, undersigned counsel is in an interracial marriage, celebrating more than a decade of
matrimony with an Asian-American woman. Meanwhile, the Plaintiff had the following crude
conversation about counsel and his wife:

(Curse words censored).

Asian American women endure being constantly and falsely

stereotyped as prostitutes or mail order brides. The Plaintiff’s false assumption that undersigned
counsel’s wife is a “mail order bride” is but one example of the racist comments he has made
about her.
20.

Another, more serious example of the instant Plaintiff’s propensity for targeting

his “enemies’” families becomes relevant when confronting the accusation that the undersigned
11
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 11 of 22 Document 19

counsel falsely accused the Plaintiff of making a rape threat. Specifically, on pages 2-3 of the
MTDQ, the Plaintiff writes:
an individual in Texas ... falsely accused Plaintiff of posting a rape threat on his
blog. Even after local police responded to this individual’s complaint, examined
Plaintiff’s computer and found nothing that could remotely be called a threat, Mr.
Walker continued to assert on his “Allergic To Bull” blog that Plaintiff had
indeed made such a threat. Plaintiff suggested to Mr. Walker that he stop telling
this lie or face legal ramifications.
In short, he is accusing an unnamed individual of falsely accusing him of making a “rape threat”
and accusing the undersigned counsel of repeating the allegation. Upon information and belief,
that unnamed individual is veteran journalist Lee Stranahan and his attached Declaration, along
with the Declaration of Aaron Walker, establish that the allegations the undersigned counsel
made were well-founded in fact. Specifically, a third party threatened to post Mr. Stranahan’s
address on the Internet so that someone could go to his house and rape his wife while he was
away on business. The Plaintiff defended that conduct by saying that this person didn’t actually
post the Stranahans’ address on the Internet. Then the Plaintiff posted the Stranahans’ address
on the Internet. The Plaintiff later wrote a vile fantasy in which Mr. Stranahan was raped. The
undersigned counsel accurately reported on this threatening conduct and expressed opinions
about the Plaintiff’s behavior. While the Plaintiff may not agree with undersigned counsel
opinion, counsel did not once defame the Plaintiff by falsely claiming he made a rape threat.
21.

On page 12 of Exhibit 4, the Plaintiff accurately quotes the undersigned counsel

as saying “[a]pparently Schmalfeldt is so demented he forgot he told Judge Grimm that he was
demented.” That was in response to Mr. Schmalfeldt writing that: “Mr. Hoge might want to
consider the impact of calling a man suing him for defamation ‘admittedly demented.’

I

admitted no such thing.” The fact that the Plaintiff has admitted to having dementia is verified
by records found in PACER. Attached as Exhibit B to this Opposition is a letter the Plaintiff
12
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 12 of 22 Document 19

wrote to Judge Grimm of the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland, in the case
currently styled Kimberlin v. Frey, Case No. 8:13-cv-03059 (D. Md. 2013)9 in which he tells
Judge Grimm on page 2 the following about the state of his health: “There are other outward and
not-quite-so-visible signs of increased degeneration, including the onset of early Parkinson’s
disease dementia.” In other words, the accusation that the Plaintiff has admitted to having
dementia is true—based on publicly available court documents.
22.

Finally, the most ridiculous example of supposedly defamatory comments by the

counsel are those which contain jokes to the effect
that the Plaintiff is fat. However, the Plaintiff has
made light of his weight himself. For instance, one
of his many autobiographical books is entitled No
Doorway

Wide

Enough:

2000-2010,

My

Parkinson’s Decade. If there is any doubt that this
title is a “fat joke” at the Plaintiff’s own expense,
the cover of the book has been inserted on the right,
and this image is worth a thousand words.10 The
picture on that cover depicts the Plaintiff from
behind.

The Plaintiff’s claim that undersigned

counsel defamed the Plaintiff by suggesting he was

9

By way of background, Mr. Schmalfeldt’s friend Brett Kimberlin sued the undersigned counsel
and around two dozen others for an alleged RICO conspiracy. The case was originally styled
Kimberlin v. National Bloggers Club (I), but every claim against every defendant but Patrick
Frey was dismissed. Thus it became Kimberlin v. Frey. Further, in the two and a half years the
case has been pending, Judge Grimm has stepped aside to be replaced by Judge Hazel.
10
This image taken from the Google Books listing, available at https://books.google.com/
books/about/No_Doorway_Wide_Enough.html?id=im-pbwAACAAJ&source=kp_cover&hl=en
13
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 13 of 22 Document 19

fat was obviously made in bad faith.
23.

The same is true for all of the remaining allegedly defamatory statements by the

undersigned counsel. In each instance, the statements at issue are either 1) an obvious joke not
to be taken as a statement of fact, 2) a statement that does not disparage of the Plaintiff,11 or 3) if
it is disparaging and presented as a statement of fact, then the statement was true. The claim that
the undersigned counsel wrote anything defamatory about the Plaintiff is, therefore, both
irrelevant, and false.
A.

This Court Should Credit the Declaration of Aaron Walker and Disregard the
Declaration of Brett Kimberlin as Non-Credible.
24.

The Plaintiff also attaches the Declaration of Brett Kimberlin as Exhibit 1 to the

MTDQ. However, the Declaration is contradicted on every relevant point by the Declaration of
Aaron Walker. Thus, it becomes a contest of “he said, he said,” but the Plaintiff has presented
no evidence why undersigned counsel is not to be trusted, while there is plenty of reason to doubt
the word of Mr. Kimberlin.
25.

To begin, Mr. Kimberlin is not only a convicted terrorist, but also a convicted

perjurer. See Kimberlin v. Dewalt, 12 F. Supp. 2d 487, 490 n.6 (D.Md. 1998). That same case
also demonstrates a more recent deception. As noted above, the widow DeLong won a judgment
against Mr. Kimberlin for over $1 million for her injuries and the wrongful death of her husband.
In DeWalt, the court described how after being paroled, Mr. Kimberlin had engaged in “deceitful
maneuvers to hide his ability to pay” the widow DeLong. Id. at 494. The DeWalt court goes on
to outline how “[d]espite a healthy income” the Plaintiff attempted to avoid paying the woman
he wounded and widowed by creating a shell corporation, BKE, Inc., which Mr. Kimberlin
11

For instance, on page 19 of Exhibit 4, undersigned counsel is quoted as saying that Brett
Kimberlin was present for a hearing and looked “like a disheveled homeless man.” This is a
statement only disparaging of Mr. Kimberlin.
14
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 14 of 22 Document 19

maintained 100% control over. Id. at 491. Using that corporation, Mr. Kimberlin funneled his
income into BKE, Inc.’s bank accounts, and then used corporate money to pay for personal
expenses. Id. at 493. In addition to all of that, he also committed loan fraud as follows:
Following the Supreme Court’s denial of certiorari [in the DeLong case],
petitioner continued to ignore the outstanding judgment. On May 16, 1996 he
submitted a mortgage loan application denying that he had any “outstanding
judgments” against him. A $308,000 mortgage loan was approved for the
purchase of a house in Bethesda, Maryland.
Id. at 491. In short, he did his level best to cheat a woman he wounded and widowed out of a
judgment meant to repair some of the damage he had done to her, and he obtained a bank loan
without disclosing to them that he owed her that money. Indeed, his conduct was so outrageous
that his parole was revoked.12
26.

Turning to more recent events, in 2013, the Plaintiff sued about two dozen

individuals and corporations in Kimberlin v. National Bloggers Club, et al. (I), today referred to
as Kimberlin v. Frey (hereinafter “Kimberlin v. NBC (I)”).13 The Plaintiff evidently intended to
sue Twitchy, LLC, then a Colorado media company, but neglected to include the company in the
caption.14 Accordingly, that court did not issue a summons for Twitchy, LLC. Mr. Kimberlin,
who has also been convicted of crimes related to document forgery,15 decided to forge a
summons for Twitchy. Attached as Exhibit C is Mr. Kimberlin’s “Verified Response to March
4, 2014 Order to Show Cause” filed in that case where he admitted to forging the summons and
offered the thin excuse that because he was a pro se plaintiff, he didn’t know he shouldn’t forge a
12

The DeWalt case is primarily about challenging his parole revocation.
This case was previously discussed in footnote 9.
14
This can be seen by examining, for instance, the First Amended Complaint in Kimberlin v.
National Bloggers Club, et al. (I), Case No. 8:13-cv-03059 (D.Md. 2013) which is Docket #2 in
that case. The caption of the case does not include Twitchy, LLC, but the list of parties includes
Twitchy, LLC. See ¶ 25.
15
See, e.g., United States v. Kimberlin, 805 F. 2d 210, 228 (7th Cir. 1986) (detailing how Mr.
Kimberlin was caught at a print store with forged documents and attempted to eat the evidence).
13

15
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 15 of 22 Document 19

court document. Apparently, Mr. Kimberlin thinks that one needs three years of law school to
learn not to falsify court documents.
27.

That same excuse—that he is just a pro se who didn’t know any better—was

offered by Mr. Kimberlin in another case, Kimberlin v. Walker, et al., No. 380966V (Md. Mont.
Co. Cir. Ct. 2013) aff’d in Case Nos. 1553, 2099 and 0365 (Md.App. Feb. 2, 2016). In that case,
Mr. Kimberlin submitted two different filings purporting to show that he had performed initial
service of process on a Defendant named Ali Akbar. Both filings included a copy of a certified
mail “green card.” In the first filing, the green card checkbox next to “restricted delivery” was
empty. In the second, the green card was marked “restricted delivery.”16 Attached as Exhibit D
is a transcript of the April 9, 2014 hearing in Kimberlin v. Walker, et al.,17 in which Mr.
Kimberlin admitted to altering the green card, again offering his pro se status as an excuse.
28.

Indeed, Mr. Kimberlin has even misstated the truth regarding his own exhibits.

For instance, attached as Exhibit E is an Opposition that Mr. Kimberlin filed in Kimberlin v.
NBC (I). In paragraph 48, the Plaintiff claims that he received a message (allegedly from a
sheriff’s office) that read: “LEAVE HIM ALONE. DON’T GO THERE.” Mr. Kimberlin stated
in that document that he “interpreted this as a threat to leave Mr. Frey alone and not to contact
his supervisors.” Id. However, if one examines the exhibit he presents which allegedly proves
the claim—attached as Exhibit F—the entirety of the phrase is “Don’t go there.” The phrase
“leave him alone,” was wholly made up. Thus, he changed the capitalization of the message and
added an entire sentence to it. Indeed, even after the undersigned counsel pointed out this

16

The difference is significant because under Maryland law, initial service of process can be
performed by mail, but only if it is sent by certified mail, restricted delivery, to ensure that the
summons and complaint does in fact reach the defendant’s hands.
17
As suggested by the PACER notations above, this transcript was originally filed as an exhibit
to a motion filed in Kimberlin v. NBC (I).
16
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 16 of 22 Document 19

discrepancy to Mr. Kimberlin,18 Mr. Kimberlin continued to repeat this falsehood without
making any effort to explain the discrepancy.19
29.

Finally, Mr. Kimberlin has misstated the truth about Mr. Walker when the proof

he made a false statement is right in front of him. In the same Opposition attached as Exhibit E
above, Mr. Kimberlin writes in ¶ 41 (pp. 31-32) that “Defendant [Aaron] Walker has even
imputed in a recent blog post that Plaintiffs daughter is fair game for destruction because of
‘corruption of blood.’ Exhibit z.” Attached as Exhibit G to this filing is his Exhibit Z, which is
an email where he extensively quotes from a piece the undersigned wrote as saying.
For me, one of the great underappreciated clauses of our Constitution is in the
Treason clause. It says: “but no Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of
Blood, or Forfeiture except during the Life of the Person attainted.” The second
part of that is fairly easy to understand, but what about the first[?] What the hell
do they mean by the corruption of the blood?
Well, the answer is they are saying you cannot punish the family of a traitor as
though they were traitors, too. It is a talisman of what makes this country great.
Fundamentally we don’t care who your ancestors were. They could have been
kings, they could have been beggars. They could have been heroes and they
could have been terrorists. We don’t care. Because you are judged as you.
So not knowing this girl, she enjoys the presumption of innocence that belongs to
all strangers. Given the way Brett Kimberlin lies about everything, I have no
reason to think he is telling her the truth about what is going on and therefore I
have no reason to think she approves of what is actually happening here. If she
knew the truth she would know that her father has been working for years to
suppress the truth about his illegal and immoral conduct, and his criminal and
immoral conduct, combined with his attempt to silence his critics, has brought all
this attention on his family.

18

See “Defendant Walker’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Oppositions, Notification and
Declaration,” Docket #54, pp. 4-5 in Kimberlin v. NBC (I) (outlining how Mr. Kimberlin’s own
exhibit contradicts his claims).
19
See Second Amended Complaint, Docket #135, at ¶ 116 (p. 41) in Kimberlin v. NBC (I)
(repeating the claim, contradicted by his own exhibit, that he received a message from a sheriff’s
office saying “LEAVE HIM ALONE. DON’T GO THERE” even though his exhibit contradicts
this claim).
17
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 17 of 22 Document 19

But allegedly a few people have harassed her online, on her facebook and the like.
There is always concern, of course, that Brett or his allies might be faking a lot of
that behavior <http://patterico.com/2012/06/26/strong-circumstantial-evidencethat-brett-kimberlin-is-astroturfing-the-alleged-threats-against-him-and-hisallies/>. But regardless, if any person draws any negative conclusion about her
based on her father, they are not being charitable enough. They are forgetting that
even when we are talking about Benedict Arnold, we do not hold the child
responsible for the conduct of the father.20
In short, the undersigned wrote that Mr. Kimberlin’s self-described daughter should not suffer
because of Mr. Kimberlin’s misconduct because in America we reject the principle of the
corruption of the blood. Mr. Kimberlin’s claim that undersigned counsel said that one should
target her under the principle of the Corruption of the Blood is knowingly false. Further, just as
with the alleged message from the sheriff’s office, this discrepancy was pointed out to Mr.
Kimberlin,21 and Mr. Kimberlin has repeated the false remark without any effort to explain the
discrepancy.22
30.

With most ordinary people, it is reasonable to assume that if they make an

accusation about someone that there must be some truth to it—that it cannot be made up from
whole cloth. In Mr. Kimberlin’s case, it is not safe to make that assumption. These are strong
words, but they are justified by the forgoing. He will misstate the truth even when the truth is
only a few page turns away. Further, he has a track record of misstating the truth about what the
undersigned has said and done.
20

All of this is a mostly accurate cut and paste from a piece the undersigned wrote called
“EXCLUSIVE: My Motion to Dismiss Convicted Terrorist Brett Kimberlin’s RICO Suit”
available at http://allergic2bull.blogspot.com/2013/12/exclusive-my-motion-to-dismiss.html.
The only relevant difference is that whenever the original had a link to a webpage, the Plaintiff
had somehow pasted a copy of that link right after, surrounded by arrow points (“<” and “>”).
Otherwise it was the same text that the undersigned wrote.
21
See “Defendant Hoge’s Reply to Plaintiff’s Oppositions,” Docket #56, pp. 16-17 in Kimberlin
v. NBC (I) (outlining how Mr. Kimberlin’s own exhibit contradicts his claims).
22
See Second Amended Complaint, Docket #135, at ¶ 249 (p. 75) in Kimberlin v. NBC (I)
(repeating the claim, contradicted by his own exhibit, that the undersigned counsel believed Mr.
Kimberlin’s daughter should be targeted because of the corruption of the blood).
18
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 18 of 22 Document 19

31.

The Declaration of Aaron Walker contradicts Mr. Kimberlin’s declaration in

nearly every particular, and because Mr. Kimberlin has no credibility, his Declaration should be
discounted in its entirety. In addition to the difficulties of credibility, Mr. Kimberlin testifies as
to the circumstances of undersigned counsel’s termination from a job, an event he did not
witness. He also includes a copy of an email that was supposed to remain confidential under a
court order in the Circuit Court of Prince William County, Virginia,23 and, in any case, since it is
unsworn, it is hearsay.
32.

The truth is that the undersigned is a graduate of Yale Law School and an attorney

in good standing in two jurisdictions who has been admitted to practice before three federal
courts, including this Court. The undersigned counsel has never been disciplined by a bar
association, and he has never committed any crime worse than a traffic infraction. Further, he
has achieved all of this despite his hidden disabilities and the prejudice and discrimination they
inspired. To the extent that the undersigned counsel’s record could be “put on trial” in this case,
he gladly would measure his life and character against that of the Plaintiff or Mr. Kimberlin.
The undersigned counsel’s worst “offense” would seem to be engaging in off-color humor
outside of the courthouse.
33.

In summary, the Plaintiff has moved to disqualify the undersigned counsel based

on a non-rule and without evidence that counsel has actually fallen short of the aspirations of his
profession. Further, as noted previously in this filing, the Plaintiff has failed to properly invoke
the rule against attorneys serving when they might be witnesses, and has falsely accused the
undersigned counsel of lying in court documents.

Accordingly, the Plaintiff’s motion to

disqualify counsel has no basis in law or fact. It is frivolous, and it should be denied.

23

A copy of this order is attached as Exhibit H.
19
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 19 of 22 Document 19

II.
THE PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL SHOULD BE STRICKEN
34.

In the prior pages, the Defendants have demonstrated that there is no basis in law

to disqualify the undersigned as counsel. The Plaintiff has cited rules that don’t apply or don’t
exist and made false accusations of dishonesty in order to argue for disqualification. What is
manifestly obvious from the forgoing is that the Plaintiff is not only wrong, but also that he is
arguing in bad faith.
35.

As noted in Environ Products, Inc. v. Total Containment, Inc., 951 F.Supp. 57,

59-60 (E.D. Pa., 1996), “[m]otions to strike ‘usually will be denied unless the allegations have no
possible relation to the controversy and may cause prejudice to one of the parties.’ Wright &
Miller, § 1382 at 685-90 (emphasis added).” This improper and frivolous motion precisely fits
the exception to the rule. The Plaintiff’s MTDQ has no possible relationship to the case, and it is
plainly designed to cause prejudice to Defendants Palmer and Johnson by their association with
counsel. See, e.g. Raghavendra v. Trs. of Columbia Univ., 686 F. Supp.2d 332, 336 (S.D.N.Y.,
2010) (striking a large number of motions, including a motion to disqualify counsel, because
they were “replete with ad hominem remarks and irrelevant materials”); Jorgensen v. Prudential
Ins. Co. of America, 852 F.Supp. 255, 260 (D.N.J., 1994) (striking a voluntary dismissal because
it “was filed for an improper purpose”); and Fleming v. Parnell, Case No. C13-5062 BHS at 8,
(W.D. Wash. April 17, 2014) (granting a motion to strike where information related to
confidential settlement negotiations were included for an “improper purpose”). The court in
Alvarado Morales v. Digital Equipment Corp., 669 F.Supp. 1173, 1187 (D.P.R., 1987) reminds
us that “[t]he federal courts do not provide a forum for mudslinging, name calling and
‘privileged’ defamation.” Toward this end, “a court has inherent power to strike scandalous
matter from any document submitted to it.” In the Matter of REA Holding Corp., 447 F.Supp.
20
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 20 of 22 Document 19

167, 171 (S.D.N.Y., 1978). The Defendants respectfully request that this Court exercise that
power and strike the Plaintiff’s MTDQ.
36.

Further, even if this Court was not convinced that the entirety of this motion

should be stricken, at the very least the Plaintiff’s Exhibit 3 should be stricken, because the
entirety of that exhibit consists of documents obtained in a case where a protective order had
been put into place as noted supra page 19.

WHEREFORE, this Court should deny the Plaintiff’s motion to disqualify counsel, strike the
motion in its entirety (or at the minimum, Plaintiff’s Exhibit 3), and provide all other relief that is
just and equitable.

Tuesday, March 8, 2016

Respectfully submitted,
s/ Aaron J. Walker
Aaron J. Walker, Esq.
Attorney for Defendants Johnson and Palmer
Va Bar# 48882
DC Bar #481668
P.O. Box 3075
Manassas, Virginia 20108
(703) 216-0455
(No fax)
AaronJW1972@gmail.com

21
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 21 of 22 Document 19

VERIFICATION
I, Aaron Walker, state under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of
America that the foregoing is true and correct and that all exhibits are true and correct copies of
the originals.
Executed on Tuesday, March 8, 2016.
s/ Aaron J. Walker

CIVIL L. R. 7(A)(2) CERTIFICATION
In compliance with Civil L. R. 7(a)(2), I certify that no separate supporting memorandum
or other supporting papers except those already attached to this opposition will be filed in
relation to this opposition.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I certify that on the 8th day of March, 2016, I served copies of this document on William
Schmalfeldt by email by consent.
s/ Aaron J. Walker

22
Case 2:15-cv-01516-NJ Filed 03/08/16 Page 22 of 22 Document 19

