 

Case 1:02-cv-00154 Document52 ~~ Filed in TXSD on 05/22/2006 Page 1 of 7

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT Smt feat tos
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS
BROWNSVILLE DIVISION MAY 22 2006

Micheal 1 tity, Clark of Gommt

LUIS ALEJANDRO GARZA

FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
THE UNITED STATES OF

:
VS. 0x00A7 CIVIL ACTION NO. B-02-154
0x00A7
0x00A7
AMERICA 0x00A7

 

AND MOTION FOR IN CAMERA INSPECTION

TO THE HONORABLE JUDGE OF SAID COURT:

COMES NOW, LUIS ALEJANDRO GARZA, Plaintiff in the above-entitled and
numbered cause, and files this his first amended motion to compel and motion for
in camera inspection and in support thereof would respectfully show as follows:

1.

Plaintiff propounded interrogatories and requests for production to Defendant
United States of America. Defendant objected to some of Plaintiffs discovery
requests and identified certain documents it was withholding based upon privilege.
Plaintiff asks the court to order the government to produce the items it is withholding
and conduct an in camera inspection to determine whether such documents should
be produced, in whole, or in part. Those documents have been identified as:

a) | Anemail dated February 13, 2003;
 

Case 1:02-cv-00154 Document52 ~~ Filed in TXSD on 05/22/2006 Page 2 of 7

b) |Amemorandum dated February 7, 2001;

Cc) Nine separate memoranda dated April 17, 2001; and

d) One hand written note entitled "Texas gangs'.

2.

Plaintiff also made discovery requests pertaining to "similar incidents" defined
as "assaults by multiple inmates upon one or more inmates at or around the
recreation yard at the Three Rivers facility during the past ten years." This
information is calculated to lead to admissible evidence in that it could show that
Defendant was aware of the risk involved, identify employees reprimanded for failing
to follow rules regarding inmates gathering into large groups in the recreational yard
and may disclose memoranda which may address the best way to deal with the
problem of violence by large groups in the recreation yard.

3.

In addition, Plaintiff asked the government to produce all relevant photographs
and videotapes. Records produced by the government indicate that in the
prosecution of the assailants of this assault that numerous still photos were obtained
from videotapes and used in that prosecution. The government has failed to produce
these photographs or account for their existence. In addition, the government has
produced a scanning video which rotates from camera to camera (approximately 14

cameras) throughout the Three Rivers facility. Plaintiff needs the government to

Plaintiff's First Amended Motion To Compel Discovery and Motion for Jn Camera Inspection
Page -2-
 

Case 1:02-cv-00154 Document52 ~~ Filed in TXSD on 05/22/2006 Page 3 of 7

produce the videotape from the camera or cameras capturing the specific area
where Plaintiff was assaulted as well as the basketball and handball courts were the
forty-sum inmates gathered prior to their raid upon the victims. The government has
the means to isolate these cameras and provide a videotape of just those cameras
but has failed to do so. This information would be critical as it would clearly show
that these inmates had been gathering at the handball and basketball courts for quite
a long time without being separated per specific post orders which ultimately led to
Plaintiff being severely beaten.
4,

In addition, Plaintiff in interrogatory number 1 of his first set of interrogatories
inquired as to standards in supervising inmates in the recreational yard, including the
number of guards, location of guards, the gathering of inmates into large groups, and
the procedures once an incident starts. The government has refused to answer
based on its previous jurisdictional challenge, which has since been overruled by the
Court of Appeals, and the confidential nature of such security information. Plaintiff
needs this information to evaluate the reasonableness of the government's actions
on the occasion in question.

5.
In addition, in interrogatory no. 3 in Plaintiffs first set of interrogatories, he

inquired as to what could have been done different by the government to avoid the

Plaintiff's First Amended Motion To Compel Discovery and Motion for Jn Camera Inspection
Page -3-
 

Case 1:02-cv-00154 Document52 ~~ Filed in TXSD on 05/22/2006 Page 4 of 7

incident or the injuries suffered by Plaintiff. The government has objected to this
question as being argumentative, vague, and overly broad. Plaintiff would like the
government to answer this question as it would go to its veracity and candor to the
court in the evaluation of the reasonableness of its actions immediately before and
at the time of the incident in question. In addition, in the unlikely event the
government should admit that it failed to do anything that could have avoided this
incident, such an admission could be used against the government at trial.
6.

In addition, in interrogatory no. 5, Plaintiff inquired of prior claims or lawsuits
involving similar incidents during the past ten (10) years. The government refused
to answer based upon its objection to jurisdiction and that the information would be
unduly burdensome and costly to produce. Plaintiff asks the court to require the
government to show why producing such information would be unduly burdensome
and costly. Plaintiff submits that, if there has been similar incidents, then he may
find admissible evidence by contacting other plaintiffs and their lawyers regarding
their investigation in their cases as well as documents produced and testimony given
by government employees which may be useful in prosecution of Plaintiff's lawsuit.
Furthermore, if there are prior incidents, which resulted in similar claims or lawsuits,
those facts may demonstrate the extent of the government's knowledge of the risks

and problems involved in Plaintiff's incident prior to Plaintiff's incident and therefore

Plaintiff's First Amended Motion To Compel Discovery and Motion for Jn Camera Inspection
Page -4-
 

Case 1:02-cv-00154 Document52 ~~ Filed in TXSD 0n 05/22/2006 Page 5of7

reflect on the government's negligence or even gross negligence in preventing the
incident in which Plaintiff was so severely injured.
7.

In addition, in interrogatory no. 6, Plaintiff has asked the government whether
it claims that Plaintiff was in any way at fault at causing his own injuries and the
government refused to answer based upon its jurisdictional motion to dismiss.
Plaintiff has a right to know how he was contributorily negligent.

8.

In addition, in interrogatory no. 9, Plaintiff has asked the government to
provide its legal basis for its affirmative defense that Plaintiff's injuries and damages
were caused by third parties and should be reduced or barred. The government
objected to this interrogatory, again, based upon its now overruled motion to dismiss
based upon jurisdiction.

9.

In addition, in interrogatory no. 10, Plaintiff inquired as to the government's
affirmative defense of superseding or intervening cause as legally barring Plaintiffs
recovery against the government. Again, the government objected and refused to
answer the question based upon its motion to dismiss, which has since been

overruled.

Plaintiff's First Amended Motion To Compel Discovery and Motion for Jn Camera Inspection
Page -5-
 

Case 1:02-cv-00154 Document52 ~~ Filed in TXSD on 05/22/2006 Page 6 of 7

10.

In addition, in request for production no. 7, Plaintiff has asked for
documentation regarding similar incidents and the government objected based on
its motion to dismiss. Plaintiff needs this information as explained in the companion
interrogatory.

11.

WHEREFORE, Plaintiff prays that after notice and hearing that Defendant be
compelled to produced the items described herein and that the Court, after reviewing
same, order Defendant to produce the discovery requested.

Respectfully submitted,

ke R. be

284 Ebony Avenue
Brownsville, Texas 78520
Telephone : 956-546-9900
Facsimile : 956-546-9997
State Bar No. 02176500
Federal |.D. No. 3968

 

ATTORNEY IN CHARGE FOR |
PLAINTIFF, LUIS ALEJANDRO GARZA

Plaintiff's First Amended Motion To Compel Discovery and Motion for In Camera Inspection
Page -6-
 

Case 1:02-cv-00154 Document52 ~~ Filed in TXSD on 05/22/2006 Page 7 of 7

ERTIFICAT REN

| CERTIFY that an attempt has been made to resolve the matters described

in the foregoing motion without the necessity of Court intervention and same has

<-Brt Bout

BARRY R. BENTON

failed.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
| DO HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the above and

foregoing Plaintiff's First Amended Motion to Compel and Motion for in Camera
Inspection has been hand-delivered to attorney of record, to wit:

Via H. elive

Ms. Nancy L. Masso

Assistant United States Attorney
600 E. Harrison Street, #201
Brownsville, Texas 78520

on this 2- - day of May, 2006.

S 2) Soude

BARRY R. BENTON

Plaintiff's First Amended Motion To Compel Discovery and Motion for Jn Camera Inspection
Page -7-
