UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA
TAMPA DIVISION
VIP AUTO GLASS, INC., individually, as
assignee, and on behalf of all those similarly
situated
Plaintiff,

CASE NO.: 8:16-CV-02012-MSS-JSS

vs.

CLASS ACTION

GEICO GENERAL INSURANCE
COMPANY,
Defendant.
/
DEFENDANT’S RESPONSE TO MOTIONS TO WITHDRAW AS COUNSEL FOR
PLAINTIFF AND FOR EXTENSION TO RESPOND TO SHOW CAUSE ORDER
Defendant, GEICO General Insurance Company (“GEICO General”), respectfully
responds to Plaintiff’s Counsels’ Motion to Withdraw as Counsel for Plaintiff (Dkt. 82)
(the “Motion to Withdraw”) and Plaintiff’s Motion for Extension of Time to Respond to the
Court’s July 14, 2017 Order (Dkt. 83) (the “Motion for Extension of Time”).
BACKGROUND
The Court’s July 14, 2017 Order (Dkt. 80) denied Plaintiff’s request to voluntarily
dismiss this case without prejudice (the “Show Cause Order”). As the Court recognized:
This case has been pending for over a year and has been extensively
litigated up to the point of class certification, causing GEICO to expend
considerable time and expense. Moreover, it has now come to light that
VIP Auto Glass has persisted with this class action case despite the fact
that it lacks a valid assignment of benefits to support its individual claim.
Even worse, based on the affidavits and deposition testimony presented by
GEICO in opposition to VIP Auto Glass’s Motion for Class Certification,
it appears that VIP Auto Glass has submitted a forged assignment to this

Court, caused numerous false statements and assertions to be made in its
pleadings and other filings with this Court, submitted false discovery
responses, and testified falsely under oath in this case.
Show Cause Order, pg. 4.

Given Plaintiff’s conduct, the Court specifically ordered

Plaintiff to:
SHOW CAUSE why an adverse judgment on the merits due to lack of
standing should not be entered and why sanctions in the form of an award
of GEICO’s reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees incurred as a result of
defending this action and/or a judgment for fraud upon the Court should
not be entered against it. VIP Auto Glass shall file its response within
fourteen (14) days of the date of this Order. Thereafter, GEICO shall be
entitled to file a reply within fourteen (14) days.
Id. at 5.

Accordingly, Plaintiff was required to respond to the Show Cause Order by

July 28, 2017.
Plaintiff did not respond to the Show Cause Order as the Court directed. Instead,
Plaintiff’s counsel moved to withdraw. Plaintiff further moved to extend the time to respond
to the Court’s Show Cause Order.
Plaintiff is represented by three law firms in this case. All of Plaintiff’s attorneys
have been involved from the beginning of this case.
ARGUMENT
Plaintiff and its counsel should not be allowed to avoid responding to the Show Cause
Order. No further delay should be permitted under these circumstances.
Local Rule 2.03(c) provides that leave to withdraw shall not be given “absent
compelling ethical considerations, if such withdrawal would likely cause continuance or
delay.” There is no doubt that withdrawal in this case will cause delay. The request to

2

withdraw and motion for extension have already caused delay. The time to respond to the
Court’s Show Cause Order has passed, and no response has been filed.
Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel has failed to show a compelling ethical consideration to
support the Motion to Withdraw.

Plaintiff’s counsel merely states that “irreconcilable

differences have arisen between the Law Firms and the Plaintiff.” Motion to Withdraw, ¶ 2.
This Court recently denied a similar motion to withdraw where plaintiff simply stated
that “irreconcilable differences have arisen between the Plaintiff and the undersigned
counsel.” See Stupar v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, 2016 WL 7666130, at 1*
(M.D. Fla. Aug. 8, 2016). The Stupar Court recognized that irreconcilable differences “[did]
not appear to be a listed ground for withdrawal.” Id. (quoting Florida Rule of Professional
Conduct 4-1.16). The Stupar Court further noted that “counsel ha[d] not demonstrated that
the requested withdrawal [was] not likely to cause continuance or delay.” Id.
This Court has similarly recognized that “in order to be permitted to withdraw as
counsel when such withdrawal would likely result in delay or continuance, counsel must
establish a compelling ethical consideration such as ‘irreconcilable conflict’ between attorney
and client of such severity as to necessitate withdrawal.” See Silva v. Potter, 2006 WL
3298543, at 4* (M.D. Fla. Sept. 25, 2006) (citing Mekdeci v. Merrell Nat. Laboratories, a
Div. of Richardson-Merrell, Inc., 711 F.2d 1510, 1520-1521 (11th Cir.1983)). There has
been no such showing in this case.
CONCLUSION
The Motion to Withdraw and Motion for Extension have already caused delay.
Plaintiff has failed to show a compelling ethical consideration for the request to withdraw.

3

These motions should therefore be denied. Plaintiff should be ordered to respond to the
Court’s Show Cause Order without further delay.
Respectfully submitted,
/s/ John P. Marino
John P. Marino (FBN 814539)
Lindsey R. Trowell (FBN 678783)
Edward K. Cottrell (FBN 013579)
SMITH, GAMBRELL & RUSSELL, LLP
50 North Laura Street, Suite 2600
Jacksonville, Florida 32202
Phone: (904) 598-6100
Facsimile: (904) 598-6204
jmarino@sgrlaw.com
ltrowell@sgrlaw.com
ecottrell@sgrlaw.com
Attorneys for GEICO General Insurance Company

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I certify that on August 2, 2017, I electronically filed the foregoing document with the
Clerk of the Court using the CM/ECF system, which will send a notice of electronic filing to
all counsel of record.
/s/ John P. Marino
Attorney

4

