UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA
ATLANTA DIVISION
BORIS WOODARD and SUSAN
WOODARD, as Surviving Parents of
ANNA WOODARD, deceased; and
BORIS WOODARD, individually,
Plaintiffs,
v.
THOMAS C. DEMPSEY,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CIVIL ACTION FILE
NO. 1:14-cv-03710-RWS

PLAINTIFFS’ RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO EXCLUDE
THE OPINIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ ACCOUNTING EXPERT
JEAN-PASCAL GINGRAS
Come now the Plaintiffs and file this Response in opposition to Defendant’s
Motion to exclude the testimony of accounting expert Jean-Pascal Gingras
respectfully showing as follows:
INTRODUCTION
Defendant’s Motion is completely dependent on the ipse dixit testimony of
his own hired expert, Dr. Bruce Seaman. Defendant’s 37-page memorandum
repeatedly uses conclusory words such as “unreliable” (used 29 times) and “novel”
(used 16 times). However, Defendant never substantiates these conclusions with
anything other than a professional difference of opinion between Plaintiff’s expert

Page 1 of 21

(a CPA) and Defendant’s expert (an economist).
Defendant’s Daubert attack on Mr. Gingras repeatedly focuses on his
“methodology.” However, Defendant chose not to tell the Court that his own
expert, Dr. Seaman, testified to using the same methodology as Mr. Gingras to
calculate the economic damages related to lost wages, lost benefits and lost
household production:
“Q: [M]echanically speaking, just in case this judge was
asked about the methodology used by Mr. Gingras, you'd
agree that he selected an amount of years that he projected
Anna would have worked, right?
A:
Yes.
Q:
He projected a, a compensation amount that he thought
Anna would have received throughout the course of her work
career, correct?
A:
That's correct.
Q:
He utilized a discount rate to reduce that number to the
present value?
A:
That's correct.
Q:
And you did the exact same thing?
A:
Yes.”
Seaman Dep., p. 27:21 – 28:10; see also p. 106:23 – 108:7.
The differences that do exist between the experts stem from different
assumptions the experts used regarding what age Anna Woodard would have
retired, the value to be used for Anna’s earning capacity, and the value to be placed
on her household services.

Page 2 of 21

ARGUMENT AND CITATION OF AUTHORITY
I.

JP GINGRAS IS AN EXPERIENCED CPA WHO FOLLOWED
STANDARD ACCOUNTING METHODS TO ARRIVE AT HIS
OPINIONS.
Mr. Gingras graduated with an accounting degree from St. Bonaventure

University in 1994, with concentrations in finance, accounting and economics. He
earned an M.B.A. in 1998 from the same school. Gingras Dep., p. 7:5-16. After
passing the C.P.A. exam, he worked for three years at Alston & Bird where he was
an in-house forensic accounting expert. Gingras Dep., p. 8:13-23; see also Exhibit
A – Gingras CV. He later founded The Gingras Firm, LLC and has worked in
forensic accounting in the litigation environment for more than 10 years.
Mr. Gingras has been licensed in the State of Georgia as a Certified Public
Accountant (CPA) for the past fifteen years. He is also a Certified Fraud Examiner
(CFE); a Forensic Certified Public Accountant (FCPA); a Certified Global
Management Accountant (CGMA); a Certified Financial Crime Specialist (CFCS);
and is Certified in Financial Forensics (CFF). Id.
As a forensic accounting professional, Mr. Gingras consults for attorneys as
well as businesses, routinely performing economic analysis related to personal
injury matters. Mr. Gingras is a member in good standing of a number of

Page 3 of 21

professional organizations, including the AICPA, the Association of Certified
Fraud Examiners, and the Georgia State Society of CPAs. Id.
Mr. Gingras has testified 26 times in state and federal courts. In this case,
Mr. Gingras followed the same methodology that has already withstood multiple
Daubert challenges. Mr. Gingras followed the peer-reviewed guidance of the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”), which is utilized
by thousands of accounting professionals around the country.
Based on his extensive education, training and experience, Mr. Gingras is
qualified, and has been qualified on multiple occasions, to testify. Each of his
opinions is supported by sufficient factual bases and reliable methodologies. See
Rule 26 Report attached as Exhibit B. Defendant has presented the Court with no
evidence to exclude him.
II.

DEFENDANT’S DAUBERT CHALLENGE ASKS THE COURT TO
RESOLVE DIFFERENCES IN OPINION BETWEEN THE
EXPERTS.
While Daubert is a threshold means of keeping junk science out of the

courtroom, the Supreme Court was clear that “[v]igorous cross-examination,
presentation of contrary evidence, and careful instruction on the burden of proof
are the traditional and appropriate means of attacking shaky but admissible
evidence.” Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 509 U.S. 579, 596

Page 4 of 21

(1993).
In other words, a court’s role as gatekeeper is not intended to supplant the
role of the jury or the adversarial system. Allison v. McGhan Med. Corp., 184
F.3d 1300, 1311 (11th Cir. 1999); see also Ambrosini v. Labarraque, 101 F.3d 129,
141 (D.C.Cir.1996) (“The district court[ ] err[ed] ... [by] misconce[iving] of the
limited ‘gatekeeper’ role envisioned in Daubert. By attempting to evaluate the
credibility of opposing experts and the persuasiveness of competing scientific
studies, the district court conflated the questions of the admissibility of expert
testimony and the weight appropriately to be accorded such testimony by a fact
finder.”).
The Eleventh Circuit has cautioned against elevating the trial court
“to the role of St. Peter at the gates of heaven, performing
a searching inquiry into the depth of an expert witness’s
soul - separating the saved from the damned. Such an
inquiry would inexorably lead to evaluating witness
credibility and weight of the evidence, the ageless role of
the jury.”
Allison v. McGhan Medical Corp., 184 F.3d 1300, 1321 (11th Cir. 1999)(emphasis
added), citing McCullock v. H.B. Fuller Co., 61 F.3d 1038, 1045 (2nd Cir.1995).
Defendant asks the Court to apply an exception to these clear rules because
of a disagreement between its expert, an economist, and Plaintiffs’ expert, a CPA.
But, as one court explained:
Page 5 of 21

“Simply because the experts disagree as to the most
reliable method for calculating damages does not require
the exclusion of [one expert’s] opinion. Such arguments
go more to the weight of the evidence, than the admissibility
of the evidence under Daubert.
The certainty and
correctness of [the expert’s] opinion will be tested through
cross-examination and presentation of contrary evidence and
not by a Daubert challenge.”
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortg. Corp. v. GMAC Mortg. Corp., 2008
WL 3819752, *4 (M.D.Fla.2008) (emphasis added); see also Nature’s
Prods v. Natrol, Inc., 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 185676 at *4
(S.D.Fla.2013) (finding that a CPA’s testimony was sufficiently reliable
in spite of arguments that he failed to take into account other methods or
that other methods were more reliable).
Defendant’s own cases emphasize the courts’ limited duty to merely ensure
that the fact-finder weighs sound and reliable evidence, and that courts “may not
evaluate the credibility of the opposing experts” or the “persuasiveness of
competing scientific studies.” Quiet Tech. DC-8, Inc. v. Hurel-Dubois UK Ltd.,
326 F.3d 1333, 1340-41 (11th Cir. 2003) (emphasis added).
In Quiet Tech., the Court found that arguments regarding the expert’s use of
an incorrect formula and misuse of an otherwise reliable method were attempts to
identify flaws in generally reliable scientific evidence, which was “precisely the
role of cross-examination.” Id. The Court explained, “in most cases, objections to
Page 6 of 21

the inadequacies of a study are more appropriately considered an objection going
to the weigh to the evidence rather than its admissibility.” Id. at 1345 (citation
omitted).
As shown below, Mr. Gingras is qualified to render the expert opinions
proffered in his expert report, and Defendant’s complaints of his expert opinions
must be addressed during cross-examination at trial.
A.

DEFENDANT ASKS THE COURT TO EXCLUDE CPA
GINGRAS BECAUSE OF DEFENDANT’S OWN EXPERT’S
IPSE DIXIT AND DESPITE OF MR. SEAMAN’S ADMISSION
THAT HE USES THE SAME METHODOLOGY.

Determining economic damages in a personal injury case is not simply a
matter of totaling the Plaintiffs’ past medical bills, lost wages, and other types of
economic damages. Accountants and other professionals are routinely enlisted as
testifying experts to employ some fairly standard procedures to estimate the future
economic damages related to lost wages.
Defendant repeatedly appears to take issue with Mr. Gingras’
“methodology” in calculating lost wages and loss of household services. However,
Defendant never argues that Mr. Gingras applied incorrect formulas or that his
calculations are wrong.
Instead, the Defendant bases his complaints on Mr. Gingras’ reliance on
different assumptions about Anna’s life in the future. Defendant argues that his
Page 7 of 21

own expert’s preferred assumptions render his expert’s opinions “more accurate”
and “more reliable.” See, e.g., Seaman Dep., p. 37:1 – 11, esp. 37:9-11 (“it doesn’t
allow for this age-specific adjustment, which I believe is necessary to do this
calculation more accurately.”); p. 38:9-12; and see p. 42:9-12.
However, when cross-examined, Dr. Seaman repeatedly admitted that he
used the same methodology as Mr. Gingras. Seaman Dep., p. 27:21 – 28:10; see
also pp. 105:10-108:7, esp. 107:17-23; p. 23:13-15 (Regarding household services,
“Q: [. . .] And that’s the methodology that you used? A: Yes. Q: And that’s the
methodology that he used? A: Although applied to, I think, an erroneous base,
but he certainly did project, he did discount, he did do it to life expectancy.”); and
see Seaman, pp. 23:25 – 24:2 (“Now, I don't disagree with your assertion that
that’s a similar methodology, with the two variations in Case 1.”); and see pp.
17:25 – 18:4 (agreeing that his calculations in Scenario 1 are “materially similar”
to Gingras’); and 22:25 – 23:6 (agreeing to using a similar methodology to Gingras
for lost earnings).
Because both experts must rely on some assumptions to provide their
opinions about what the future held for Anna, Dr. Seaman admits that he has no
way to know whether his analysis would be more accurate than Gingras’. Seaman
Dep., p. 42:25 – 43:5 (“Q. [. . .] While we sit here today, you can't know that your

Page 8 of 21

assessments as applied to Anna Woodard's life would be more accurate than Mr.
Gingras' assessments applied to Anna Woodard's life? A: That's true, but that's
always true.”).
Differing assumptions are not grounds for striking an expert. See BerkCohen Associates, L.L.C. v. Orkin Exterminating Co., 2004 WL 445132 (E.D. LA,
March 10, 2004) (holding that a challenge to an economist’s underlying
assumptions did not render the opinions inadmissible under Rule 702).
1.

Mr. Gingras’ Calculations Concerning Lost Wages Withstand
Daubert Scrutiny.

The differences that exist between the experts on the issue of lost wages
stem from differing assumptions about: (1) at what age Anna would have retired
(i.e., 65 years old versus 67 years old); (2) what level of education Anna would
have achieved; and (3) what wages or salary should be used as a starting point to
estimate Anna’s earning capacity.
Mr. Gingras’ 26-page report calculated 3 scenarios for the jury’s
consideration:
 Scenario 1: Anna would have graduated with an Associate’s
degree in 2016 and would have started teaching preschool (her
desired profession). CPA Gingras used the 2012 median pay for
preschool teachers based on the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Page 9 of 21

 Scenario 2: Anna would not have graduated with an Associate’s
degree and would have earned wages equal to the median earnings
for individuals with a high school education.
 Scenario 3: Anna would have graduated with an Associate’s
degree in 2016 and would have earned the average hourly rate in
the U.S. for 2016.
Exhibit B, esp. p. 9-11.
In all three scenarios, CPA Gingras used age 67 as the full retirement age,
per the Social Security Administration. Id. at p. 9-11. He also presented numbers
based on Anna’s continuous work life based on the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
on preschool teachers. Gingras Dep., p.33:23 – 34:15.
Mr. Gingras used median income figures throughout the assumed life span
because the lower starting wages for someone new to the workforce average out
the likely higher wages the person receives near the end of her career. Gingras
Dep., p. 29:14-19 (“Q: If I'm understanding you correctly, by staying on the
median and not making the adjustment it averages out in the end? A: That's
correct. Q: Okay. A: Actually you are conservative, but yes.”). Gingras
recognized that attempting to parse out the wages of an entry-level preschool
teacher and then try to factor in promotions over the course of a lifetime would be
very speculative. Gingras Dep., p. 34:16 – 35:2.

Page 10 of 21

Mr. Gingras was clear that he opted for a conservative methodology.
Gingras Dep., p. 29:14-19. Defendant’s expert Mr. Seaman agreed. He testified
that Mr. Gingras’ method of using the median income – particularly when
projecting the loss of income of a young person like Anna – was “more defensible”
than other methods:
“ [. . .] These are risky enterprises, and this is one reason I
applauded Mr. Gingras, and I share that view, that especially
when you're dealing with a young person like this, with not a
huge earnings history applicable to the case, that the use of
median earnings is more defensible, because by definition
median is going to be nonsensitive to either especially low
earnings or to use median earnings whenever it was possible.”
Seaman Dep., p. 69:8-19 (emphasis added).
Defendant chose not to inform the Court of his own expert’s testimony.
Instead, Defendant argued that “Gingras improperly and unreliably utilized median
wages reported by the Bureau of Labor and Statistics in determining Anna’s lost
wages.” Def’s Brief, p. 9. This cannot be a basis for excluding Mr. Gingras.
2.

Mr. Gingras’ Loss of Services Calculations Are Appropriate.

As with the testimony concerning lost wages, the differences with respect to
the value of Anna’s household services also relate to differing assumptions about:
(1) how many hours would Anna have contributed to benefit the household

Page 11 of 21

throughout her lifetime; and (2) what would be the replacement cost of every hour
contributed by Anna.
When calculating the economic value of Anna’s household production, Mr.
Gingras used a 24-hour day as a baseline so that the jury could make the
determination from the evidence how many hours Anna would have provided the
services in the future. Gingras Dep., p. 52:7-23. He testified that it was up to the
jury to decide what, if any, figures should be accepted. Gingras Dep., p. 46:15-21.
Mr. Gingras’ expert report specifically states that:
“Ms. Woodard's actual lost household production
limitation should be determined by the Trier of Fact.
This summary table (shown below) utilizes contributions
of 20%, 40%, 60%, 80% and 100% for illustration
purposes only. Testimony in this matter as well as other
evidence should establish a basis for the Trier of Fact to
determine what the appropriate percentage of limitation
(i.e., 0% to 100% contribution) should be as this is a
question of fact. No opinion is expressed as to the
appropriate level of contribution within this Expert
Report.”1
Courts have previously qualified Mr. Gingras as an economic damages
expert and admitted Mr. Gingras’ expert opinions related to lost wages, lost
benefits and lost household services utilizing the same methodology as he has done
in this matter. The Defendants in the case of Sophia Mott v. Surgical Associates,
1

Docket No. 103-2, p. 9 (emphasis added).

Page 12 of 21

LLC, and Sidney L. Stapleton, MD, CAFN 09A11508-3, unsuccessfully attempted
to move the court to exclude Mr. Gingras’ expert opinions related to lost wages
and lost household production. At trial, Judge Purdom found that 1) Mr. Gingras
qualified as an economic damages expert, 2) Mr. Gingras’ methods, procedures
and analyses (which were the same or similar to this matter) adequately met the
requirements of Daubert and 3) that his methodology was reliable and would be
helpful to the jury.
In the separate matter of Kelvin Taylor & Jackie Taylor v. Decatur Health
Resource, Inc., Defendants also unsuccessfully attempted to move the court to
exclude Mr. Gingras’ expert opinions related to lost wages and lost household.2 In
her order, Judge Johnson denied defendants’ attempt to exclude Mr. Gingras’
expert opinions relating to lost household production stating that:
Defendant argues that Mr. Gingras’ lost production
assessment accounts for all hours spent away from work,
including the entire time that Plaintiff spends asleep. This
is simply incorrect. Mr. Gingras testified in his deposition
and before this Court that his methodology provides and
hourly “wage” to quantify Plaintiff’s contribution to the
home and it is incumbent upon the jury to actually apply that
wage for however many hours per day that the jury sees
appropriate. Id. at pp. 4-5.

2

Order attached as Exhibit C.

Page 13 of 21

Defendant’s motion raises the same issues that have been put forth in other
matters in which Mr. Gingras has already faced and defeated Daubert challenges.
Mr. Gingras’ expert report specifically states that:
To this amount, a coefficient of contribution should be
applied by the Trier of Fact to determine the actual Loss of
household production and activity for Ms. Woodard. For the
purpose of this analysis, a range from 5% contribution to
95% contribution is presented using a 5% contribution
increment by year (incremental loss of $505,391 per 5%
contribution) for the benefit of the Trier of Fact. By utilizing
the Trier of Fact to determine this assumption (i.e., Ms.
Woodard's percentage of contribution to the household), the
value of the lost household production can be calculated
with certainty (i.e., not speculative) since the model no
longer contains unknowns or variables and the methodology
does not contain any element of conjecture.
Furthermore, and perhaps more troubling, is Defendant’s assertion that “the
generally accepted approach for projecting the value of lost household production
is to follow data contained in the American Time Use Survey, which is the data
source used by the Dollar Value of a Day” which unequivocally contradicts Dr.
Seaman’s previous testimony in another case. In Johnny Bates and Patricia Bates
v. Michelin North America, Inc., Dr. Seaman testifying for defendant, advocated
for the use of actual testimony instead of the utilization of surveys:3

3

Transcript attached as Exhibit D.

Page 14 of 21

We have evidence from a deposition from Mrs. Bates about
exactly what he [Mr. Bates] had been doing and what they
have had to incur as expenses in the absence of his being able
to do it. That is a better fact than the survey. It is more
case specific than the survey. Id. at p. 69:4-8.
...
I don’t see why this is complicated. It is not somebody’s
recall. It is not somebody’s reference to either the
American Time Use Survey or the Michigan survey. It is
specific facts in evidence. Id. at p. 73:2-7.
Mr. Gingras’ approach is exactly the type of analysis for which Dr. Seaman
militated, employed, and advocated for in his calculation of the estimated lost
household production in Johnny Bates and Patricia Bates v. Michelin North
America, Inc. Plaintiffs are baffled at Dr. Seaman’s criticism of the exact
methodology he previously advocated for in another case. Mr. Gingras’ expert
opinions concerning Ms. Woodard’s lost household services should not be
excluded under these circumstances.
B.

DEFENDANT INAPPROPRIATELY CRITICIZES GINGRAS
FOR NOT MAKING SPECULATIVE “ADJUSTMENTS.”

Multiple sections of Defendant’s brief criticize Gingras for “adjustments” he
did not make:
 “fail[ing] to make adjustments for age, gender,
educational attainment, and geographical attainment”
– Brief p. 10;

Page 15 of 21

 “Adjust[ing] for Anna’s work-life expectancy and
projected years to final separation from the work
force” – Brief p. 13; and
 “Fail[ing] to account for the possibility that Anna
would not work full-time year round” – Brief p. 15.
But, in his deposition, Dr. Seaman admitted that there was no industry standard
that defines what a notable difference in adjustments actually is. Seaman Dep., p.
39:17 – 40:9. This is because the “adjustments” are merely differences in the
assumptions that Mr. Seaman chose to use. Differing assumptions do not equate
to faulty methodology under Daubert.
In this case, Mr. Gingras chose the more conservative route of adopting
fewer assumptions. For example, Mr. Gingras recognized that he should not parse
his economic analysis by sex because it is not necessarily true that female
preschool teachers make less than male counterparts. Gingras Dep., p. 32:11-23.
If Mr. Gingras adopted more assumptions, Defendant would have still challenged
his testimony – only this time arguing that it was too speculative.
The Court should note that in spite of the alleged errors in Mr. Gingras’
choice to include fewer adjustments, the two experts only have a total difference in
lost earnings of $173,273, $843,354, and $1,064,622 in Gingras’ Scenarios 1-3,

Page 16 of 21

respectively. Seaman R. 26 Report, p. 3. A breakdown of the numbers in Exhibit
E shows how small these differences actually are.
Even if these differences were greater, the differences would go to the
weight of the testimony only. See, e.g., Bazemore v. Friday, 478 U.S. 385, 400
(1986) (“[n]ormally, failure to include variables [of race, education, tenure, and job
title] will affect the analysis’ probativeness, not its admissibility.”).
Furthermore, Defendant repeatedly asserts that Mr. Seaman “tested” Mr.
Gingras’ figures and concluded that they were “simply wrong.” The fact is that
this “testing” never happened. It is nowhere in Mr. Seaman’s Rule 26 report.
What did happen was that Mr. Seaman evaluated Mr. Gingras’ testimony based on
his own assumptions about what variables should have been used in the
calculations. The citations in Defendant’s brief about “testing” are merely Dr.
Seaman’s own ipse dixit. Compare, e.g., Def’s Brief at p. 3 and Seaman Dep., p.
37:9-11; 38:1; Seaman Dep., p. 42:1-15.
It is axiomatic that differing assumptions are not grounds for striking an
expert.
C.

MR. SEAMAN’S CRITIQUE OF THE AICPA GUIDELINES IS
A RED HERRING BECAUSE HE IS NOT A CPA.

Page 17 of 21

Defense expert Seaman is critical of the AICPA guidelines. However, he is
an economist, not an accountant.4 Mr. Seaman admittedly knows very little about
the AICPA. Seaman Dep., p. 32:9-13 (“I really don’t spend much time dealing with
that organization.”). Thus, it is no surprise that Defendants argue that Mr. Seaman
“would never and has never used the AICPA guidelines.” Def’s Brief at p. 8.
However, courts regularly accept testimony based on the AICPA’s
guidelines because they provide “valuable guidance” to a financial expert’s work.
Floorgraphics, Inc. v. News. Am. Mktg. In-Store Servs., 546 F. Supp. 2d 155
(N.J.D.C. 2008) (citing AICPA Practice Aid 06-4 “Calculating Lost Profits” in
finding a particular valuation method was “recognized by experts in the field as an
acceptable method”); and see Leon v. Kelly, 2009 U.S. Dis. LEXIS 39010
(D.N.M. 2009) (methodology based in part on the AICPA was found reliable).
Further, because Mr. Seaman is not an accountant, he has no idea why the
AICPA used the term “non-authoritative” in its guidelines. Seaman Dep., p. 60:715, esp. lns. 13-15 (“They were probably trying to be cautious about somebody
using method in there and into trouble. I don't know.”). But the argument about

In fact, Seaman repeatedly mis-referenced the AICPA as the “AIPCA.”
Seaman Dep., p. 29:17; p. 30:5; 32 and Rule 26 Report p. 2-3.
4

Page 18 of 21

the phrase “non-authoritative” only confirms that Defendant does not understand
the largest accounting association in the world.5
“Authoritative” guidelines are such because publicly traded companies are
required to follow them when preparing financial statements to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).6 Any and all other professional
accounting guidance (i.e., business valuation, lost profits, economic damages) fall
under the “non-authoritative” guidelines because they are not required by the SEC.
Id.
The calculations and principles Mr. Gingras used are well established and
are used by CPAs in forensic analysis. They are routinely accepted by courts
around the country, and they are subject to testing during cross-examination. Dr.
Seaman’s unfamiliarity with the AICPA is no bar to Mr. Gingras’ testimony in this
case.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, Plaintiff respectfully requests that the Court
deny Defendant’s Motion in its entirety or in the alternative, permit oral argument

5

See http://www.aicpa.org/About/Pages/About.aspx. The AICPA has
412,000 members in 144 countries.
6

Exhibit F – Affidavit of Jean-Pascal Gingras.

Page 19 of 21

on this issue to address any specific questions the Court may have.
This the 16th day of December, 2015.
Respectfully submitted,
/s/ D. Dwayne Adams
MICHAEL L. NEFF
Georgia Bar No. 537180
D. DWAYNE ADAMS
Georgia Bar No. 140406
Attorneys for the Plaintiffs
The Law Offices of Michael Lawson Neff, P.C.
Resurgens Plaza, Suite 1770
945 E. Paces Ferry Road
Atlanta, Georgia 30326
(404) 531-9700
(404) 531-9727 Fax
mneff@mlnlaw.com
ddadams@mlnlaw.com

I certify that the above document has been prepared in Times New Roman
(14 point) font and thus satisfies the font size requirements of this Court.
Dated: The 16th day of December, 2015.
/s/ D. Dwayne Adams
D. DWAYNE ADAMS
Georgia Bar No. 140406
The Law Offices of Michael Lawson Neff, P.C.
945 E Paces Ferry Road NE, Suite 1770
Atlanta, Georgia 30326
(404) 531-9700 - Telephone
(404) 531-9727 – Facsimile

Page 20 of 21

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I have on this day served a copy of the foregoing
PLAINTIFFS’ RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO EXCLUDE
THE OPINIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ ACCOUNTING EXPERT JEANPASCAL GINGRAS by filing it electronically with the Clerk of Court using
CM/ECF, which will automatically send email notification of such filing to the
following attorneys of record:
Wayne S. Melnick
Abby A. Vineyard
Freeman Mathis & Gary, LLP
100 Galleria Parkway, Suite 1600
Atlanta, GA 30339
This 16th day of December, 2015.
/s/ D. Dwayne Adams
D. DWAYNE ADAMS
Georgia Bar No. 140406
The Law Offices of Michael Lawson Neff, P.C.
945 E Paces Ferry Road NE, Suite 1770
Atlanta, Georgia 30326
(404) 531-9700 – Telephone
(404) 531-9727 – Facsimile

Page 21 of 21

