Case 1:08-cr-00058-TFH

Document 10

Filed 05/20/2008

Page 1 of 7

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
v.
EDWARD J. ADAMS,
Defendant.

:
:
:
:
:
:
:

CRIMINAL NO. 08-0058 (TFH)

OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO SUPPRESS EVIDENCE
The United States, by and through its attorney, the United States Attorney for the District
of Columbia, hereby files this opposition to Defendant's Motion to Suppress Evidence and
Memorandum in Support Thereof (the “Motion” or “Defendant’s Motion”). As grounds for this
opposition, the United States relies on the following facts and authorities as well as other facts and
authorities that may be cited at a hearing on the motion:
1.

In the late afternoon of February 16, 2008, two police officers of the D.C. Housing

Authority were on routine patrol when they observed the defendant operating a vehicle that was
traveling eastbound on H Street in the northwest quadrant of the District of Columbia. As officers
traveled behind the vehicle operated by the defendant, they observed a passenger in the defendant’s
vehicle jump from the vehicle and run toward H Street. They also observed the vehicle -- from the
middle lane in which it traveled -- make a sudden right turn onto Fourth Street. The officers
activated their lights and ultimately conducted a traffic stop.
As the officers approached the defendant’s vehicle, they observed that all windows
of the defendant’s vehicle were rolled down, and each officer perceived an odor that each associated
with burnt marijuana. In response to officer request, the defendant produced a driver’s permit, but
failed to produce registration for the vehicle that he operated. When asked whether he was in

Case 1:08-cr-00058-TFH

Document 10

Filed 05/20/2008

Page 2 of 7

possession of a controlled substance, the defendant advised that there was no controlled substance
in the vehicle, but that he had smoked marijuana earlier. The defendant also advised that he was
carrying marijuana on his person. Officers removed the defendant from the vehicle, conducted a
patdown of the defendant, and recovered from the defendant’s sock a clear bag containing a weedlike substance later determined to be marijuana.
As the officers conducted the patdown, another officer who had been observing advised that
a bulge in the defendant’s pelvic area appeared unusually large. Other officers, who also had
observed the defendant attempting to conceal the pelvic area of his body against the vehicle, then
patted down this area of the defendant’s person and felt a hard object. As the defendant yelled
words to the effect of “You can’t go in my pants,” and tried to conceal his pelvic area from police
by clinching his knees to his chest and by rolling onto his stomach, an officer recovered from a jock
strap that the defendant was wearing a hard, wet, cookie-shaped object that officers later determined
to be 121 grams of crack cocaine. Specifically, the officers recovered the cocaine from a jock strap
that the defendant wore beneath khaki pants and atop gym shorts.
A subsequent search of the defendant’s person revealed a digital scale (approximately the
size of a personal data assistant, like a Blackberry, that fits in the hand). A search of the vehicle that
the defendant drove revealed a green, duffle-style piece of luggage that contained numerous items
of drug paraphernalia. Later that same evening, pursuant to written consent provided by the
defendant’s mother, officers searched a room used by the defendant at the home leased by the
defendant’s mother.

There officers recovered additional controlled substances and drug

paraphernalia.
2.

Through his Motion, the Defendant, Edward Adams, seeks to suppress all tangible

evidence seized by police in connection with defendant's February 16, 2008, arrest. That tangible
evidence includes (1) a weed-like substance, later determined to be marijuana, that police officers
2

Case 1:08-cr-00058-TFH

Document 10

Filed 05/20/2008

Page 3 of 7

recovered from the defendant’s sock; (2) a cookie-shaped rock substance, later determined to be 121
grams of crack cocaine, that police officers recovered from a jock strap that the defendant wore
underneath his outer garment but atop a pair of gym shorts; and (3) a red digital scale that police
recovered from the defendant’s shirt pocket. The defendant also seeks to suppress the following
evidence that was recovered from a piece of green luggage found inside the trunk of the vehicle that
defendant was driving at the time of his arrest: (1) a so-called “cooking pot” -- that is, a coffee pot
that contained a white powder residue; (2) a strainer; and (3) a baster.1 Though never specified in
his Motion, the defendant also seeks to suppress “other items of evidence” that were recovered from
his mother’s home after she provided written consent for officers to search the room that the
defendant used in the home that she leased. The items seized during that search were: (1) a piece
of green luggage (matching that recovered from the trunk of the vehicle the defendant was driving)
containing empty ziploc bags and so-called “cooking supplies”; (2) a camouflage-patterned bulletproof vest; (3) various items of mail matter addressed to the defendant; (4) a glass mirror with
residue; (5) green ziploc bags containing a rock substance; (6) an assortment of empty ziploc bags;
(7) a clear bag containing approximately four grams of marijuana; (8) two black bags containing
approximately one gram of cocaine (in powder form); and (9) a pot containing empty ziploc bags
and a 12-ounce can of baking soda.
3.

With respect to his effort to suppress tangible evidence seized as a result of a search

of the room he used in his mother’s home, the defendant asserts, in effect, that the search was illegal
inasmuch as it was conducted without the defendant’s consent, in a place where he had a reasonable
expectation of privacy, and locked the door preventing easy access. See Defendant’s Motion at 3.

1

The baster is referred to erroneously in the police paperwork as a “thermometer.” In the
culinary context, the baster, which resembles a very large dropper or a very large thermometer
with a squeeze-bulb attached to one end, is used to moisten meats with butter, pan drippings, or
other liquids at regular intervals during baking or roasting.
3

Case 1:08-cr-00058-TFH

Document 10

Filed 05/20/2008

Page 4 of 7

The defendant’s argument is moot, however, as the government does not intend to introduce in its
case-in-chief any tangible evidence seized from the defendant’s room.
4.

The defendant also implies, in a very conclusive fashion in the opening paragraph

of his Motion, that he seeks to suppress “statements made to the police after his arrest on
[February 16, 2008]." Defendant’s Motion at 1. However, Defendant’s Motion is entirely devoid
of any factual or legal support for any suppression of post-arrest statements. The defendant is
obliged, in definitive motion papers, to make factual allegations which, if established, would warrant
relief. See United States v. Thornton, 147 U.S. App. D.C. 114, 124 n.65, 454 F.2d 957, 967 n.65
(1971). Allegations that are merely conclusory cannot suffice. Id. In the absence of any
justification for the perfunctory nature of the defendant’s pleading in this regard, this Court should
not consider suppression of any post-arrest statement by the defendant.2
5.

The defendant claims that this Court should suppress the remaining evidence (that

is, the marijuana, crack cocaine, and digital scale recovered from the defendant’s person as well as
the cooking pot, strainer, and baster recovered from the trunk of the car that the defendant drove)
because officers lacked reasonable articulable suspicion that criminal activity was afoot and, thus,
the drugs and paraphernalia were recovered incident to an unlawful search . See Defendant’s
Motion at 2-3. The defendant’s claim is without merit, however. In fact, the police had probable
cause to arrest the defendant at the moment he was unable to produce valid registration for the
vehicle he drove, and the drugs and paraphernalia recovered from him and the trunk of the vehicle,
therefore, were seized during a search incident to his lawful arrest.

2

In any event, the post-arrest statement that the defendant provided should not be
suppressed. Despite the fact that the defendant was in police custody when he provided the
statement, a Form PD 47 that was signed by the defendant indicates that the defendant was
advised of his rights pursuant to Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436 (1966). The defendant’s
arrest was lawful and there is no evidence that the defendant did not understand his rights or that
the defendant’s rights were violated.
4

Case 1:08-cr-00058-TFH

Document 10

Filed 05/20/2008

Page 5 of 7

Once the officers observed the defendant commit a traffic offense by making an
illegal turn, they had a reasonable articulable suspicion that justified their stop of the defendant.
Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1 (1968). At that point, based on the valid traffic stop alone, the officers
could legitimately have ordered the defendant from his car without violating his Fourth Amendment
rights. United States v. Bullock, 510 F.3d 342, 344-45 (citing Pennsylvania v. Mimms, 434 U.S.
106, 111 n.6 (1977) and concluding that officers did not violate Bullock’s rights when they ordered
him from his vehicle after he was stopped for a moving violation); Maryland v. Wilson, 519 U.S.
408, 413 n. 1 (1997).
However, officers in the instant case did not order the defendant from the vehicle until after
(1) the defendant failed to produce valid registration for the car he drove; (2) officers perceived a
smell they associated with the recent burning of marijuana; and (3) in response to an officer’s
legitimate questions regarding the possession of marijuana in light of the odor perceived,3 the
defendant admitted that he possessed marijuana on his person. Thus, at that point, the officers had
more than reasonable articulable suspicion; they were armed with sufficient facts to give them
probable cause to believe that the defendant possessed marijuana. See Rawlings v. Kentucky, 448
U.S. 98, 111 (1980) (“Rawlings”) (finding that where petitioner had admitted ownership of a sizable
quantity of drugs found in the purse of a female acquaintance, police clearly had probable cause to
place petitioner under arrest and the search of petitioner's person that uncovered certain money and
a knife could be upheld as incident to petitioner's formal arrest even though the search preceded the
arrest); see also United States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 273 (2002) (concluding that reviewing courts
must look at the “totality of circumstances” in evaluating an officer’s objective basis for suspecting
that a crime has been committed and noting that this process permits "officers to draw on their own

3

An officer may ask questions and conduct “plain smell” observations of a vehicle during
a brief investigative detention pursuant to Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1 (1968).
5

Case 1:08-cr-00058-TFH

Document 10

Filed 05/20/2008

Page 6 of 7

experience and specialized training to make inferences from and deductions about the cumulative
information available to them that ‘might well elude an untrained person'"); Ornelas v. United States,
517 U.S. 690, 700 (1996) (concluding that a reviewing court must give “due weight” to the factual
inferences drawn by law enforcement officers).

Moreover, “probable cause is a flexible,

common-sense standard” that “does not demand any showing that [an officer's belief that he is
perceiving criminal behavior] be correct or more likely true than false.” Texas v. Brown, 460 U.S.
730, 742 (1983). The officer's belief need only be based on reasonably trustworthy information at
the moment of arrest and it is, therefore, of no import that no marijuana residue or roach clips were
ultimately found within the vehicle. Compare Defendant’s Motion at 2. Because the officers had
probable cause to believe, at the very least, that the defendant possessed marijuana, their search of
the defendant’s person -- which, in fact, revealed marijuana in his sock -- was lawful and the
marijuana should not be suppressed.
Furthermore, even absent the defendant’s furtive gestures in connection with his
pelvis, upon discovery of the marijuana on the defendant’s person, the police, now entitled to make
a valid arrest of the defendant, were entitled to conduct a full search of the defendant’s person.
Chimel v. California, 395 U.S. 752, 763 (1969) (finding, impliedly, that subsequent to defendant’s
valid arrest for burglary, a search of the petitioner’s person for evidence that might have
incriminated him, would not have violated petitioner’s Fourth Amendment rights). Consequently,
the search of the defendant’s pelvic area that resulted in the recovery of the 121-gram “cocaine
cookie” was not illegal and that evidence should not be suppressed.
Finally, there is no basis to suppress any of the evidence recovered from the trunk
of the vehicle that the defendant drove. Once the police placed the defendant under lawful arrest,
a warrantless inventory of the defendant’s vehicle, including the trunk and closed containers therein,
was permissible. See, e.g., Colorado v. Bertine, 479 U.S. 367, 372-73 (1987) (concluding that
6

Case 1:08-cr-00058-TFH

Document 10

Filed 05/20/2008

Page 7 of 7

inventory searches may include the entirety of a car, including closed containers found therein);
Rawlings, 448 U.S. at 111 (finding valid search where search preceded formal arrest, but occurred
at a time when police had probable cause to arrest).
WHEREFORE, the United States asserts that no Constitutional infirmity exists here,
and respectfully requests that the Defendant's Motion be denied.
Respectfully Submitted,
JEFFREY A. TAYLOR
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY
D.C. Bar No. 498610
/s/
Renata Kendrick Cooper
D.C. Bar No. 424248
Assistant United States Attorney
555 Fourth Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20530
(202) 307-0031
e-mail: renata.cooper@usdoj.gov

7

