Case 1:07-cv-01625-RBW Document7 Filed 01/18/2008 Page 1 of 14

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

SAMUEL K. JACOBS, et al, CASE NO.: 1:07CV01625

HONORABLE JUDGE:

PLAIN S,
TIFF REGGIE B. WALTON

Vv.

SIDNEY S. FRIEDMAN, et al, PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO

COMPEL ANSWER TO COMPLAINT
DEFENDANTS.

 

 

 

PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO COMPEL ANSWER TO COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the undersigned Plaintiffs who move the Court to issue an order requiring
the Defendants to answer the Complaint. The Defendants have filed two motions for a more definite
answer and have defined parts of the complaint in these motions. The Complaint is explicit as to
dates, times, details, frauds, defendants, some of the witnesses, and the statutes which the Plaintiffs
allege have been violated. All of these motions are merely a devise to avoid answering the
Complaint and proceeding to discovery. The Plaintiffs aver the following, to-wit:

1.That, first of all, the Defendants appear to be confused even to what case they are referring
to since they have failed to file any documents under the proper titles. The first name, and the case
under which this case is referred to in the Docket Sheet, is "Samuel K. Jacobs, et al, v. Sidney S.
Friedman, et al," not "Samuel K. Jacobs, et al, v. Shi, et al."

2. That if the Defendants, and their attorneys, cannot read, or file, under the correct name
for the headings, then it is quite evident that they are filing for a more definite answer since they

cannot comprehend or have failed to read the names, and the order, of the parties cited on the first

R E C E WED Complaint, and in the first heading: "PARTIES I."

J
AN I 8 2008 PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO REQUIRE ANSWER-Page 1 of 6

ANCY Ma R

YER Worry
i
US. DistRier ogiON: CLERK
Case 1:07-cv-01625-RBW Document7 Filed 01/18/2008 Page 2of 14

3. That even though the characters are the same as that of other cases between these parties,
most of this Complaint details the criminal acts of Sidney S. Friedman, Greg I. Rose, Weinstock,
or their associates at Friedman & Friedman, P.A., as well as Yelin Shi and Yu Fan. calling and
making threats across State lines is a criminal act in violation of the interstate communications laws.

4. That the Plaintiffs further allege that the Defendant Sidney S. Friedman, Greg I. Rose,
Weinstock, Friedman & Friedman, P.A., Yelin Shi and Yu Fan violated other laws under the United
States Code in attempts to commit theft by conversion through violations of the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act, and formed this conspiracy not only with the other named Defendants, but
who have formed a separate conspiratorial enterprise with those in Canada who have threatened to
commit murder the Plaintiffs, and bomb an American city.

5. That the Plaintiff's Complaint is replete with explicit to details as to the aforementioned
events, and if the Honorable Court desires more proof then the Plaintiffs will gladly supply that
testimony and evidence. Plaintiffs allege that the Defendants' Answer is being evaded and
discovery is being avoided by the Defendants because a low level of debt collection practices was
reached by the Defendants when witnesses were violently threatened by Defendants Sidney S.
Friedman and Greg I. Rose of Weinstock, Friedman & Friedman, P.A. on behalf of Yelin Shi and
Yu Fan.

6. That the Defendants filed their last filing and cited ten different parts of the Plaintiffs'
Response to the Motion For a More Definite Statement. If the Defendants can respond to the
Plaintiffs' responses which is as equally detailed, then why can they not respond to a Complaint?
Plaintiffs state that to admit the truth in an Answer to the Complaint, or to deny the allegations by

failing to admit would incriminate every Defendant.

PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO REQUIRE ANSWER-Page 2 of 6
Case 1:07-cv-01625-RBW Document7 Filed 01/18/2008 Page 3 of 14

7. That the Defendants keep demanding that Rule 8 (General Rules of Pleading) and Rule
9 (Pleading Special Matters)(b) averments must be plead together. Plaintiffs repeat once again that a
fraud must be plead using particularity, and Defendants' threats to steal equipment from an office
or threats of violence were a fraudulent performances to intimidate with fear is a fraud.

8. That Plaintiffs aver that the Defendants are moving to have the Complaint written using
Rule 8 (General Rules of Pleading) and Rule 9 (Pleading Special Matters) in the same sentence.
Although this may be considered the modern approach to pleading, how can one adequately define
the details of a fraud in short concise sentences without leaving some part behind which is essential
to explaining why the action was fraudulent?

9. That Plaintiffs state that RICO is complex and they have connected each statute to at
least one other statute-this is the procedure which evolved when the civil RICO statutes were
enacted. The statutes must be connected and explained, not just cited under "JURISDICTION
AND VENUE." There are two main statutes under which ALL RICO statutes are originated. How
can there be an accusation pursuant to Title 18 U.S.C.A. 0x00A7 1962 (Prohibited activities) without
citing the prohibited activity? Rule 8 (General Rules of Pleading) simply cannot be applied. White
collar criminals are cunning and evasive and civil RICO was enacted to "catch even the smallest
fish."

10. That if the Complaint is too complex for the Defendants to comprehend, maybe it is
not the Plaintiffs who should be chastised for following the RICO guidelines as detailed in the
Department of Justice manuals, (available in any law library), but it is the Defendants who should
acquire outside assistance which specializes in RICO. Plaintiffs maintain that the RICO and
antitrust cases must be written pursuant to Rule 9 (b) (Pleading Special Matters) and anything else

that is short and concise does not give the Defendants enough information to respond adequately.

PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO REQUIRE ANSWER-Page 3 of 6
Case 1:07-cv-01625-RBW Document7 Filed 01/18/2008 Page 4 of 14

It. That Plaintiffs maintain that the Defendants are using this Rule 12(e) demands as a
smokescreen to avoid answering direct averments in the Complaint. The problem is that if
Defendant Sidney S. Friedman denies that he called and threatened two members of the staff at
the Plaintiffs' office the staff members will be brought to testify as witnesses. If he admits that he
committed these crimes he is also going to have to answer for his actions. Everyone in the
Plaintiffs' office knew of the incident. How embarrassing that a member of the Bar would stoop to
such levels as to scream and threaten to steal office equipment from two innocent people who are
there as receptionists.

12. That the Defendants once again show disrespect to a U.S. District Court by inferring that
the Court should be told what Rule to use to determine the merits of a RICO Complaint; and, this
Court, in particular, should not be dictated to since it is knowledgeable of RICO lawsuits having
opinioned some of the major RICO precedents in previous cases.

13. That, also, this "debt collection" law firm obviously is having some difficulty in
defending itself for the actions of one of its principals who openly violated the debt collection
procedures pursuant to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.

14. That the Plaintiffs are openly aggressive towards the actions of the Defendants Yelin
Shi and Yu Fan, not the ethnicity. Plaintiffs are complaining that they have been swindled out of
large sums of money by these supposedly "well educated" and professional business people who
deliberately breached contracts and induced breach of contract. The third parties involved in these
contracts are not going to just ignore this situation.

15. That Plaintiffs will not retract the statements made in the previous filing.

a. Can the opposing counsel prove that there was never a transceiver or transmitter located

in Yelin Shi and Yu Fan's house at 12922 River Road, Potomac, Maryland in 2004?
PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO REQUIRE ANSWER-Page 4 of 6
Case 1:07-cv-01625-RBW Document7 Filed 01/18/2008 Page 5of 14

b. Can Defendants Yelin Shi and Yu Fan prove that they were never part of the group that
gathered defense information from the United States and smuggled it out of the country in
architectural drawings?

16. That if the Defendants deny these statements, and they can prove these statements false,
then would it not behoove them to want to come forth in a Court and prove their innocence? This is
not about the Plaintiffs' distain for an ethnic race; it is about their aversion to a form of political
oppression and control which is infiltrating and destroying American businesses.

17. That Defendants deserve the right to counsel to defend themselves, but when the
opposing attorneys, and their law firm, knowingly join their clients in their criminal acts, and
actually commit new criminal acts in the process, the whole scenario is enlarged to form a whole
newly separate enterprise of conspiracy, fraud and deceit. This case is about criminal acts
committed by that new RICO enterprise and conspiracy which has been formed by the attorneys for
the Defendants.

18. That the Defendants stated that the Plaintiffs did not show that they deserved the
amount requested and Plaintiffs assert that they deserve much more than the original amount
demanded since Cargill formerly known as Continental Grain will be suing for the inducement of
breach of contract by Yelin Shi, Yu Fan, and their coconspirators. The Plaintiffs will join that
conglomerate in that law suit and will sue every Defendant, individually and jointly, until they have
been justly compensated for all of the injuries and damages.

19, That, if this Honorable Court will permit, the Plaintiffs will submit a copy of the
Defendants' "Answer" to Plaintiffs' Complaint in Case Number:1:04cv1379 in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia where the Defendants stated that they were

"without knowledge or information sufficient to form_a belief as to the truth of the averments"' as to

PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO REQUIRE ANSWER-Page 5 of 6
_* Case 1:07-cv-01625-RBW Document7 ~ Filed 01/18/2008 Page 6 of 14

whether the Constitution of the United States and the precedents of the Supreme Court of the
United States were valid and admissible.

20. That Plaintiffs assert that the Defendants will continue to file all types of pleadings in
order to avoid answering the Complaint and, thus, attempt to have the case dismissed before
proceeding to the next step which is discovery. Plaintiffs assert that the Defendants must Answer
the Complaint if they are as innocent as they contend they are.

THERFORE, the Plaintiffs beseech the Honorable Court to order the Defendants to make
their Answer and make a definite statement as to why they believe that they should not be held
accountable for violating the 21 statutes cited in "II. JURISDICTION AND VENUE" of the
Plaintiffs' Complaint;

That Plaintiffs state that they should not be denied their day in Court to present their
witnesses and other evidence to support the merits of this case as is typical of most RICO and
antitrust cases;

That Plaintiffs pray that this case must not be dismissed for minor or baseless claims when
the Defendants' acts were criminal in nature and should be tried by jury.

Dated this 17" day of January, 2008.

Respectfully submitted,

Moe awk f

Nancy M. Heckerman

   
 

le

OFFICES OF SAMUEL K. JACOBS
2300 M Street NW, Suite 838
Washington, D.C. 20037

Telephone: 202-416-1753

E-mail: sjnhjacobs@msn.com

PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO REQUIRE ANSWER-Page 6 of 6
Case 1:07-cv-01625-RBW Document7 Filed 01/18/2008 Page 7 of 14

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

SAMUEL K. JACOBS, et al, CASE NO.: 1:07euroV01625

HONORABLE JUDGE:

PLAINTIFFS, REGGIE B. WALTON

V.

MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND

AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT OF
PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO
DEFENDANTS. COMPEL ANSWER TO COMPLAINT

SIDNEY S. FRIEDMAN, et al,

 

 

 

MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND AUTHORITIES IN SUPPORT OF
PLAINTIFFS" MOTION TO COMPEL ANSWER _TO COMPLAINT

COMES NOW the Plaintiffs who hereby support their motion to require an answer to their
complaint with the following points and authorities:

1. That the Plaintiffs state that they have the right, and the obligation, to detail the events as
they occurred and to demand that they be answered, and if not answered, then they are admitted as
true pursuant to Rule 8 (d) (General Rules of Pleading).

The pleader may allege matters alternatively or hypothetically, and except for the good faith
requirements of Rule 11, the allegations may even be inconsistent.'

2. That the Plaintiffs aver that it is the trier of facts who should make the appropriate
decision as to whether the Complaint sufficiently details the facts and events of the cause pleaded to
determine the merits of the case, and not the mere evasion by the opposing party to delay the filing
of the appropriate answers and other pleadings.

The pleader cannot be required to elect among his allegations, but is entitled to have all his
claims and defenses considered by the trier of facts. 7

 

' Rule 8 (e)(General Rules of Pleading); 5 Wright & Miller, 0x00A70x00A7 1282-1285.
> Berry Ref. Co. v. Salemi, C.A.7", 1965, 353 F.2d 721; Fidelity & Deposit Co. of Md. v. Krout,
C.C. A.2d 1945, 146 F.2d 531; 5 Wright & Miller, 0x00A7 1283.

MEM. OF PTS. & AUTH. IN SUP. OF PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO REQUIRE ANSWER-Page 1 of 7
Case 1:07-cv-01625-RBW Document7 Filed 01/18/2008 Page 8 of 14

3. That the Plaintiffs state that they are allowed to state their grievances and although there
is no requirement for the election of remedies, they are allowed to ask for relief.'

4. That when the Defendants' denied the Constitution of the United States and the Laws of
the United States in their pleadings in Case Number:1:04cv1379 in the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of Virginia, the Plaintiffs responded to their "Answer" with the following:

7. That in paragraph 3 the Defendants, and their attorney, admit that they are
"without knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to the truth of the
averments" of the Constitution of the United States or the laws enacted pursuant thereof.
The Plaintiffs have never seen an answer like this to a `Jurisdiction and Venue' section of a
complaint and can only implore the Honorable Court to address the issues of why the most
important organic act in the United States is not acknowledged nor do the Defendants have
any knowledge of it.

8 That in paragraph 4 the Defendants, and their attorney, further deny the existence of
the laws enacted pursuant to the Constitution of the United States. Are the Defendants and
their attorney denying that they are United States Citizens, or are they under the impression
that they do not have to obey the Constitution or the laws of the United States which is, of
course, a form of constructive treason?

9. That the Defendants deny averments in Paragraph 5 and claim the venue in this
Court is not proper, and then file a counterclaim in the same Court against the Plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs refer the Court to paragraph 3. Defendants later in the Counterclaim do not waive
their rights to object to the Plaintiffs' pleading pertaining to jurisdiction but they assert that
it is okay for them to file under this jurisdiction. Good for the goose, good for the gander?

10. That the Defendants deny the acknowledgment of Amendment VII of the Constitution
of the United States as stated in paragraph 6.*

11. That in paragraph 7 the Defendants deny the existence of the Attorney General of
the United States. Plaintiffs lack an understanding as to why all of these Federal laws,
organic acts, and the Department of Justice are being denied in a United States District
Court. Do the Defendants think the Plaintiffs' RICO Complaint is a divorce discovery
motion that can be answered with deny, deny, deny?

12. That in paragraph 8 the Defendants deny acknowledgment of Gung Sou Wu (Susan
Wu) and Cheung Leung Tang (T ony Tang) and yet they have been recorded together over
twenty times in the last five months.

 

3 Similarly there is no requirement of election of remedies. Bradbury v. Dennis, C.A.10", 1966, 368

F.2d 905; Gins v. Mauser Plumbing Supply Co., C.C.A.2d 1945; Bauman, Multiple Liability,

Multiple Remedies, and the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, 1962, 46 Minn.L.Rev. 729.

* Jury trial not to be barred. Wager v. Pro, 575 F.2d 882.

> Allegations in civil RICO complaint, that defendants had conspired with others to commit series

of predicate acts for period of approximately nine years in attempt to maintain interest in and
MEM. OF PTS. & AUTH. IN SUP. OF PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO REQUIRE ANSWER-Page 2 of 7
Case 1:07-cv-01625-RBW Document7 Filed 01/18/2008 Page 9 of 14

13. That in paragraph 9 the Defendants deny knowledge of the treason cases filed
against Gung Sou Wu (Susan Wu), et al, in the District of Columbia, and the United States
District Court where the actions occurred.(R)
5. That although the Defendants grouped the laws and Court precedents together and then

proceeded to not only state their denial of the entire Constitution and the Laws of the United States,
they later separated and stated their other objections to several selected Amendments in further
paragraphs. Plaintiffs will show in discovery why these blatantly treasonous statements were
allowed by that Court, and why that whole case is null and void because of these statements.

6. That judgment is be given according to the evidence, and Rule 15(b) authorizes two
different procedures aimed at this common objective and both usually are referred to as
"amendments to conform to the evidence." '

7. That Plaintiffs state that they applied Rule 9(b) (Pleading Special Matters) to the events
and statutes which require this type of pleading because under this Rule 15 the pleadings shall be
deemed amended to conform to the proof on any issues that were tried by express or implied
consent of the parties, though not raised by the pleadings. " * * * [A] litigant cannot, for tactical
purposes, stand by silently while evidence is being admitted and then claim later that no relief can
be given because the matter was not plead." *

8. That the Plaintiffs have presented their case based on the details and events of the case,

and the merits of the case will be served by allowing these facts and evidence to be admitted since

 

control over union local, were sufficient to satisfy RICO's pattern requirement. U.S. v. Giglante,
D.N.J.1990, 737 F.Supp. 292.
0x00B0 Conviction of defendant under this chapter did not preclude his being held civilly liable in a
private cause of action brought under this section. Farmers Bank of State of Delaware v. Bell
Mortgage Corp., D.CDel.1978, 452 F.Supp. 1278.
7 1A Barron & Holtzoff (Wright Ed.), 0x00A7 449.
8 Neidland v. US, C.A.3d, 1964, 338 F.2d 254, 259. See Lomartira v. American Auto. Ins. Co.,
C.A.2d, 1967, 371 F.2d 550.

MEM. OF PTS. & AUTH. IN SUP. OF PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO REQUIRE ANSWER-Page 3 of 7
Case 1:07-cv-01625-RBW Document7 ~ Filed 01/18/2008 Page 10 of 14

the Defendants will not be prejudiced if they answer the Complaint with their objections. Liberally
construed, the pleadings cannot restrict proof of the actual facts of the case if the Rules are adhered
to by both parties."

9. That the Defendants make the point for this defense by their own submission of Conley
v. Gibson which encompasses Dioguardi v. Durning".

10. That the Defendants motion for a more definite statement demonstrates that they are
confused as to whether they want more detailed complaint or a "notice pleading" which the
rulemakers reject as being prejudicial to a proper operation of federal procedure, because it is a pure
abstraction, without content except as injected by the immediate user, and because it suggests the
absence of all pleadings. !'

11. That the Rules require the pleader to disclose adequate information as the basis of his
claim for relief as distinguished from a bare averment that he wants relief and is entitled to it.
Plaintiffs stated that the Defendants committed certain crimes, the dates of the violations, the laws
which were violated, the fact that there are witnesses to the crimes, the history of previous criminal
acts relating to the crimes committed, and other evidence which will be supplied in discovery or in

court.

 

* See, e.g., Robbins v. Jordan, C.A.1950, 181 F.2d 793, 86 U.S.App.D.C. 304, where it is held that
the proper remedy for surprise form a change of theory is a continuance, and that it is an abuse of
judicial discretion to refuse to allow the amendment. Accord: Green v. Baltimore & O. R. Co.,
C.A.6", 1962, 299 F.2d 837. But cf. Thermo King Corp. v. White's Trucking Service, Inc. C.A5",
1961, 292 F.2d 668; Hargrave v. Wellman, C.A.9", 1960, 276 F.2d 948.
' C.C.A.2d 1945, 151 F.2d 501.
'' Padovani v. BruchHausen, C. A.2d, 1961, 263 F.2d 546, 550-551; Clark, Two Decades of the
Federal Civil Rules, 1958,58 Col.L.Rev. 435, 450-451.

MEM. OF PTS. & AUTH. IN SUP. OF PLAINTIFFS' MOTION TO REQUIRE ANSWER-Page 4 of 7
