Case 1:06-cv-00305-MBH

Document 23

Filed 04/05/2007

Page 1 of 8

No. 06-305 T
(Judge Marian Blank Horn)

IN THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS

CONSOLIDATED EDISON COMPANY
OF NEW YORK, INC. & SUBSIDIARIES
Plaintiff
v.
THE UNITED STATES,
Defendant

DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR ISSUANCE OF LETTERS OF REQUEST

Pursuant to Rule 28(b) of the Rules of the United States Court of Federal Claims Court
(RCFC), the defendant, the United States, hereby moves for the issuance of Letters of Request. This
motion is made in accordance with the Hague Convention of 18 March 1970 on the Taking of
Evidence Abroad in Civil or Commercial Matters. Three proposed Letters of Request, each directed
to competent authorities in the Netherlands, England and Germany, are annexed hereto as Exhibits
1, 2, and 3, respectively.
In support of its Motion for Issuance of Letters of Request, the United States states as
follows:

Case 1:06-cv-00305-MBH

Document 23

Filed 04/05/2007

Page 2 of 8

Overview
In this case, Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. & Subsidiaries’ (“Con Ed”)
participated in a lease-in/lease-out (“LILO”) shelter transaction involving a power station (the
“RoCa3” facility owned by South Holland Electric (N.V. Electriciteitsbedrifj Zuid-Holland)
(hereinafter “EZH”)) located in the Netherlands. Con Ed, a United States taxpayer, through a
subsidiary, purported to lease property from its owner, EZH, under a head lease and simultaneously
purported to lease the property back to EZH under a sublease. This case involves the proper tax
treatment to be accorded Con Ed’s LILO shelter transaction. The specific substantive issue raised
in this refund suit is whether Con Ed is entitled to deductions for rent, interest, and transaction costs
its asserts were incurred in 1997 in connection with this transaction.
Because the counter-party to the LILO shelter, as well as third party consultants and banks
involved are located in foreign countries, the United States has requested the assistance of this Court
to obtain discovery from foreign entities.
The Transaction
Con Ed, a United States taxpayer, through a subsidiary, purported to lease property from its
owner, EZH, under a head lease and simultaneously purported to lease the property back to EZH
under a sublease. As is typical in a LILO transaction, the counter-party, EZH, is a foreign entity that
pays no taxes in the United States. EZH is unable to claim federal income tax benefits, like
depreciation, associated with its ownership of the RoCa3 facility. Immediately after the transaction
was entered into, and continuing to date, EZH or its successors (including E.On Benelux Generation
N.V., a subsidiary of E.On Energie A.G.) have continued to operate the facility and have retained

2

Case 1:06-cv-00305-MBH

Document 23

Filed 04/05/2007

Page 3 of 8

all of the benefits and burdens associated with its use and ownership. For its part, Con Ed claimed
rent and interest deductions associated with the purported head lease.
According to the LILO documents provided by Con Ed, (1) a foreign bank, Hollandsche
Bank-Unie N.V. (“HBU”) purported to make a non-recourse loan to Con Ed to finance the head
lease payments, (2) EZH’s sublease rent payments are essentially identical in timing and amount to
Con Ed’s loan payments, (3) the loan proceeds were not paid to EZH but rather were held by ABN
AMRO Bank N.V. (“ABN AMRO”), the parent bank of HBU, and used to satisfy the identical
owner rent payments from EZH and Con Ed’s purported loan repayments to HBU. Further, other
financial entities, such as Credit Suisse Financial Products, Credit Suisse First Boston (collectively
“Credit Suisse”) and Bayerische Landesbank A.G., were also involved in the financing aspects of
the LILO shelter. The circular financing arrangement among Con Ed, EZH and the foreign banks
virtually ensured that (1) neither Con Ed nor EZH will need to use their own funds to satisfy their
respective obligations under the operative documents (save for the fees and other costs paid by the
taxpayer in connection with the transaction); and (2) EZH will retain dominion and control over the
subject property.
It is the Government’s position that the tax deductions and losses claimed by Con Ed in
connection with the LILO shelter transaction are improper and that Con Ed will not be able to prove
it is entitled to a refund because:
•

Con Ed did not acquire a genuine leasehold interest in property in 1997 when it
participated in the LILO;

•

Con Ed did not incur a genuine debt obligation in connection with the LILO;

•

The LILO tax shelter transaction and components thereof lacked economic substance
and/or constitute a sham;

3

Case 1:06-cv-00305-MBH

Document 23

Filed 04/05/2007

Page 4 of 8

•

The tax deductions fail when the step transaction doctrine is applied and the steps
which comprise the tax shelter are collapsed and then viewed as a single transaction;

•

Con Ed is not entitled to an interest expense deduction with respect to its
“non-recourse loan,” because such loan does not result in a use of the loan proceeds
by Con Ed nor does it constitute a true forbearance by the lender; and

•

The LILO shelter here at issue creates, at most, a contingent future leasehold interest
not entitling Con Ed to any present deductions on account thereof.

In short, other than the execution of paper and the payment of fees, nothing happens.
The Letters of Request
Given the structure of the transaction described herein, much discoverable information is
held by entities found outside the United States. The Letters of Request (Exhibits 1-3) each request
that certain foreign entities involved in Con Ed’s LILO transaction, or their respective successors
and assigns, appear for oral examination and produce documents for inspection and copying, in the
country where they are located.
The Letter of Request addressed to the competent authority in the Netherlands (Exhibit 1)
requests the authority in the Netherlands to summon representatives of E.On Benelux Generation
N.V. (formerly EZH) (hereinafter “EZH”); Tauw N.V. (formerly Tauw Milieu B.V.) (hereinafter
“Tauw”); HBU; ABN AMRO; Credit Suisse First Boston (Nederland) N.V. and Ernst & Young
(formerly Moret, Ernst & Young). EZH is a counter-party to the Plaintiff’s LILO transaction. Tauw
is an environmental consultant retained by the Plaintiff to effectuate the LILO transaction. HBU and
ABN AMRO are commercial banks who purportedly provided the financing for the transaction and
hold the funds for making the purported payments under the transaction. Moret Ernst & Young was
the accountant for EZH at the time of the LILO transaction.

4

Case 1:06-cv-00305-MBH

Document 23

Filed 04/05/2007

Page 5 of 8

The Letter of Request addressed to the competent authority in England (Exhibit 2) requests
the English authority to request documents from Credit Suisse and Standard & Poor’s. Credit Suisse
is a financial company that provided advice on interest rates and secured credit strips in conjunction
with the transaction. Standard & Poor’s is an entity retained by or on behalf of Con Ed to provide
credit information on EZH.
The Letter of Request addressed to the competent authority in Munich, Germany (Exhibit
3)1 requests the German authority to request documents from representatives of Bayerische
Landesbank A.G. (“BL”) and E.ON Energie A.G. (“E.ON”).

BL is a financial institution

headquartered in Germany that issued a Letter of Credit in connection with the transaction. E.ON
is a German energy company that acquired EZH as a subsidiary subsequent to the instant LILO
transaction.
The Need for Foreign Discovery
One of the issues in this case is whether Con Ed can meet its burden to establish that its
LILO shelter transaction has economic substance. Under the economic substance doctrine,
transactions that are invented solely to create tax deductions and otherwise have no economic
substance, even though formally complying with the letter of the Internal Revenue Code, will not
be recognized. Knetsch v. United States, 364 U.S. 361 (1960); see also BB&T Corporation v.
United States, No. 1:04-cv-00941, 2007 WL 37798, at *11-*12 (M.D.N.C. Jan. 1, 2007) (slip
opinion) (a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1). That is “whether the transaction had any
practicable economic effect other than the creation of income tax losses.” Rose v. Commissioner,
1

Pursuant to the German reservations to the Hague Convention of 18 March 1970
on the Taking of Evidence Abroad in Civil or Commercial Matters, the United States has had the
version of the Letter of Request addressed to the competent authority in Germany translated into
German, and has submitted it in conjunction with the version written in English.
5

Case 1:06-cv-00305-MBH

Document 23

Filed 04/05/2007

Page 6 of 8

868 F.2d 851, 853 (6th Cir. 1989). The first prong of this test requires an analysis as to whether the
transaction had economic substance beyond the generation of tax benefits. Coltec Industries, Inc.
v. United States, 454 F.3d 1340, 1356 (Fed. Cir. 2006). This determination is exclusively an
objective analysis. Id. The second prong looks to whether the taxpayer possessed a non-tax
business purpose in entering the transaction, which is a subjective analysis.

Sochin v.

Commissioner, 843 F.2d 351, 354 (9th Cir.), cert. denied, 488 U.S. 824 (1988); accord, ACM
Partnership v. Commissioner, 157 F.3d 231, 248 (3d Cir. 1998), cert. denied, 526 U.S. 1017 (1999);
Muhich v. Commissioner, 238 F.3d 860, 864 (7th Cir. 2001); Transpac Drilling Venture, 1983-2
by Dobbins v. United States, 32 Fed. Cl. 810, 820 (1995); American Elec. Power. Co., Inc. v. United
States, 326 F.3d 737, 741 (6th Cir. 2003).
The information sought by the United States through the issuance of Letters of Request is
needed to make the determinations discussed above. Specifically, the United States seeks (1)
documents and information held by EZH and its successors in interest, the foreign owner of the
RoCa3 facility, pertaining to the LILO transaction and its actual structure; (2) documents and
information held by advisors and accountants for EZH; (3) pre-closing due diligence purportedly
performed by foreign entities for the purpose of the LILO transaction; and (4) the information held
by the foreign financial entities involved in the LILO transaction as it relates to the financial
arrangement incorporated into the present LILO. Such information is necessary to properly prepare
a defense to the claims asserted by plaintiff.
The United States has attempted to obtain information sought in the Letters of Request from
plaintiff, through the issuance of document requests and interrogatories. However, plaintiff has
taken the position that (1) it cannot produce information held by unrelated third parties to the LILO

6

Case 1:06-cv-00305-MBH

Document 23

Filed 04/05/2007

Page 7 of 8

transaction such as those identified in the Letters of Request, (2) that plaintiff cannot know what
responsive information or knowledge concerning the transaction other parties to the LILO
transaction may possess, and (3) that these third parties may have discoverable information
pertaining to the claims asserted in the instant matter. (See, e.g., Plaintiff’s Inter. Resp. Nos. 1 and
2, and supplemental Inter. Resp. Nos 1 and 2, attached hereto as Exhibits 5 and 6 respectively.)
Further, these third parties may have retained information or generated relevant information that is
or was unavailable to Con Ed. Therefore, it is necessary for the United States to seek such
information directly from those parties.
Further, there is a substantial risk that the foreign documents will not otherwise be available
at the trial of this case absent the letters of request sought in this motion. Because the documents
of the foreign entities that are the subject of this motion are located in the Netherlands, Germany,
and the United Kingdom, the foreign entities may contend that the documents are not subject to a
subpoena issued by this Court under RCFC 45. Indeed, Defendant has issued subpoenas to the
United States branches of several of the entities from whom information is sought, and the entities
have taken the position that the United States must seek a letter of request to obtain the information
from their foreign counterparts. Thus, to ensure that the United States can obtain the documents
from the entities identified in the Letters of Request, the United States is following the procedure
authorized under RCFC Rule 28(b)(1), in accordance with the Hague Evidence Convention, and
respectfully requests that the Court issue the attached Letters of Request.
The Netherlands, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States are signatories to the
Hague Evidence Convention. The submission of Letters of Request would minimize intrusion into
the laws of the respective countries, while promoting comity and the search for facts.

7

Case 1:06-cv-00305-MBH

Document 23

Filed 04/05/2007

Page 8 of 8

Under the Hague Evidence Convention, this Court may submit a letter of request to the
respective authorities of the Netherlands, Germany, and the United Kingdom. Defendant requests
that after this Court has executed the respective Letters of Request, the Letters of Request be
transmitted to defendant’s trial attorney who will make application directly to the appropriate
authority in the respective countries. The United States believes that using this procedure will
reduce the time required to obtain the foreign documents.
The United States will be responsible for all fees and costs associated with execution of the
attached Letters of Request and production of the requested documents.
Respectfully submitted,
s/ David N. Geier
DAVID N. GEIER
Attorney of Record
U.S. Department of Justice, Tax Division
Post Office Box 26
Ben Franklin Station
Washington, D.C. 20044
Telephone: (202) 616-3448
Facsimile: (202) 307-0054
EILEEN J. O’CONNOR
Assistant Attorney General
DAVID GUSTAFSON
Chief, Court of Federal Claims Section
STEVEN I. FRAHM
Assistant Chief, Court of Federal Claims Section
JOSEPH A. SERGI
JAMES E. WEAVER
ADAM R. SMART
Trial Attorneys
s/ Steven I. Frahm
Of Counsel
April 6, 2007

8

