UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA
TAMPA DIVISION
:
John J. Thornton,
:
(d/b/a/ Baby Boomer Headquarters)
:
an individual
:
:
Plaintiff,
:
:
vs.
:
:
J. Jargon Co.,
:
a Florida Corporation;
:
Jeanette C. Linders, an individual;
:
TOC Productions, Inc.
:
A Florida Corporation.
:
:
Defendants.
:
:
____________________________________/

Case No.:8:06-cv-01640

PLAINTIFF JOHN J. THORNTON'S MOTION FOR ADVERSE INFERENCE JURY
INSTRUCTION REGARDING DISCOVERY VIOLATIONS BY DEFENDANT J.
JARGON CO. AND MEMORANDUM OF LAW IN SUPPORT
Plaintiff John J. Thornton, by and through his undersigned attorneys, respectfully seeks
entry of an order imposing sanctions against Defendant J. Jargon Co. for discovery violations.
Sanctions are unfortunately warranted due to Jargon's deceptive and misleading interrogatory
answers and Fed. R. Civ. P. 30(b)(6) deposition testimony. As a sanction, Mr. Thornton seeks a
jury instruction detailing Jargon's deceptive and misleading answers, and further that the jury be
instructed that an adverse inference should be drawn therefrom. Mr. Thornton likewise seeks
entry of an order conclusively establishing the facts in dispute. In support of this motion, Mr.
Thornton states as follows.

I. SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT
Mr. Thornton recently uncovered significant differences between Jargon's discovery
responses in this litigation and facts advanced by Jargon in a prior litigation before this Court.
Namely, Jargon filed a Verified Complaint for trademark infringement in an earlier litigation
(Case No. 6:04-CV-251-ORL-19-KRS (M.D. Fla.)) wherein it readily admitted to being a
"producer" of the Musical that provided "theatrical production" services as well as "sales and
presentation services" for the Musical. Jargon also readily admitted that programs for the
Musical – programs that included copies of the Age Test that are the subject of this litigation -were examples of its "promotional materials." All of these statements are directly contradicted
by Jargon's interrogatory answers and Fed. R. Civ. P. 30(b)(6) deposition testimony in the
present case. Namely, in response to Mr. Thornton's discovery requests, Jargon claimed it never
produced the musical and that it had absolutely nothing to do with the Musical, other than
licensing performances to other production companies. Likewise, Jargon disclaimed having
anything to do with printing or producing show programs. The differences between Jargon's
position in the prior litigation and its position now is too stark not to impose sanctions.
II. FACTUAL BACKGROUND
A. The Parties.
This is a copyright infringement action concerning a trivia quiz that was authored by Mr.
Thornton entitled the Baby Boomer Qualifying Exam ("BBQE")1. Mr. Thornton is a proud
member of the baby boom generation and is also a self proclaimed trivia buff. The BBQE
features a number of fill in the blanks trivia questions that Mr. Thornton devised and that are
specifically tailored to the pop culture of baby boomers (i.e. people born between the years 1946
and 1964). Mr. Thornton holds a U.S. Copyright Registration on the BBQE.
1

This factual background is adopted from the factual background set forth in Plaintiff's Motion for Partial Summary
Judgment. See Summ. J. Mot. [Dkt. 67].

-2-

Defendants have infringed Mr. Thornton's copyright by including an unauthorized
version of the BBQE in programs for the popular live theater show entitled "Menopause the
Musical" (the "Musical"). These programs include a page featuring a quiz entitled the "Take the
Age Test," which is nearly a word for word reproduction of the BBQE. Defendant Linders is
also the President and owner of both the named corporate Defendants-- TOC Productions, Inc.
and J. Jargon Co. TOC is a production company that is responsible for several aspects of
bringing the Musical to the stage in various cities across the United States. Various third party
production companies are also involved in producing the Musical. An example of one of these
third party production companies is G4 Productions, Inc. TOC's role as a production company
includes producing the programs that are distributed at performances of the Musical. Jargon's
exact role in producing the musical and the associated programs is the subject of the present
motion as detailed hereinafter.
B. Procedural Posture.
Discovery in this matter has closed and the Court has ruled on the parties' respective
summary judgment motions. See Order of 5/6/07 [Dkt. 41]; Order of 7/8/08 [Dkt. 104]. The
parties are currently preparing for a pre-trial conference to be held on October 3, 2008. See
Order of 7/8/08 [Dkt. 103]. This matter is currently set for trial starting on or after November
17, 2008.

See Amended Order [Dkt. 114].

In its Summary Judgment Order, the Court

concluded that Mr. Thornton is the owner of a valid copyright in the BBQE. See Order of 7/8/08
[Dkt. 104] at pg. 12. The Court also concluded that, although Mr. Thornton did not suffer any
actual damages, he was still entitled to Defendants' profits attributable to the infringement. See
id. at pg. 23. More specifically, the Court determined that Mr. Thornton had demonstrated a
reasonable relationship between the program and gross revenues from ticket sales for the
Musical. See id.
-3-

C. Defendants' Motion for Reconsideration.
Following the Court's Summary Judgment Order, Defendants filed a Motion for
Reconsideration. See Mot. for Recons. [Dkt. 104]. In it, Defendants argued that because Jargon
was not a producer of the Musical and was not involved-- in any way-- in providing program
content, Jargon could not be liable as an infringer. Defendants relied upon the Fed. R. Civ. P.
30(b)(6) testimony of Jargon in support of this position:
J. Jargon's corporate representative testified that it was not involved in
providing content that is included in programs that are distributed at the Musical,
Dkt. 68-25 (Jargon) 6:3-6, 14-18. The representative was asked: "Q. So other
than licensing the rights of the musical, J. Jargon really doesn't have anything to
do with the –the production or program content? A. That's true." Dkt. 68-25
(Jargon) 10:10-14; see also Dkt. 68-25 (Jargon) 6:14-18 ("Q. So other than
licensing the intellectual property rights to the musical, does J. Jargon have
anything else to do with the Musical? A. No.").
Moreover, the unrebutted testimony of J. Jargon's corporate representative
shows that J. Jargon is not in any way involved in providing content that is
included in programs that are distributed at the Musical, Dkt. 68-25 (Jargon) 6:36, 14-18. The representative was asked: "Q. So other than licensing the rights to
the musical, J. Jargon really doesn't have anything to do with the –the production
or program content? A. That's true. Dkt. 68-25 (Jargon); 10:10-14 (emphasis
added). As a matter of law, therefore, there can be no infringer's profits as to J.
Jargon.
See Mot. for Reconsideration at pgs. 7, 15. (emphasis in original)
The Court denied Defendants' Motion for Reconsideration. See Order of 8/8/08 [Dkt.
108]. The Court based its decision on the fact that Defendants' summary judgment motion failed
to differentiate between the various Defendants and otherwise did not distinguish between
Jargon's role in relation to that of the other Defendants. See id. at pg. 2.
D. Jargon's Threatened Rule 11 Motion.
Four days after the Court denied Defendants' Motion for Reconsideration, Jargon served
a motion under Fed. R. Civ. P. 11 against both Mr. Thornton and the undersigned attorneys. See
Ex. A, Motion for Attorneys Fees and Costs as a Sanction Pursuant to Rule 11 Fed. R. Civ. P.

-4-

(hereinafter "Jargon's Rule 11 Motion"). The factual basis underlying Jargon's Rule 11 motion
was the same as its Motion for Reconsideration. Moreover, Jargon argued that Mr. Thornton's
attorneys lacked a good faith basis for initially bringing suit against Jargon. Jargon argued that
the undersigned attorneys filed the present action for the purpose of "extortion" and to "coerce"
Jargon into a settlement. See id. at pg. 7. The motion seeks fees and costs against both Mr.
Thornton and his counsel. In support of its Rule 11 motion, Jargon quoted from the same Jargon
Fed. R. Civ. P. 30(b)(6) deposition testimony featured in its Motion for Reconsideration:
J. Jargon's corporate representative testified in deposition that it was not
involved in providing content that is included in programs that are distributed at
the Musical, Dkt. 68-25 (Jargon) 6:3-6, 14-18. The representative was asked: "Q.
So other than licensing the rights of the musical, J. Jargon really doesn't have
anything to do with the – the production or program content? A. That's true." Dkt.
68-25 (Jargon) 10:10-14; see also, Dkt. 68-25 (Jargon) 6:14-18 ("Q. So other than
licensing the intellectual property rights to the musical, does J. Jargon have
anything else to do with the Musical? A. No.")
Discovery on J. Jargon's role made clear that J. Jargon had nothing to do
with putting together the programs or distributing them. It only licensed rights in
the Musical to Toc Productions and other production companies. Dkt. 68-25
(Jargon) 10:10-14; Dkt. 68-25 (Jargon) 6:14-18. In light of these facts, there
cannot be any profits of J. Jargon attributable to the alleged infringement. The
claim against J. Jargon for infringer's profits, therefore, is frivolous.
See Jargon's Rule 11 Motion, Ex. A at pgs. 2 - 4.
It should be noted that Jargon has not yet formally filed its Rule 11 Motion.
Nevertheless, the motion is believed to be ripe insomuch as Jargon has not withdrawn the
motion, Mr. Thornton is unwilling to dismiss his claims against Jargon, and because the 21 day
"safe harbor" provision in Rule 11 has now elapsed. Moreover, and as explained hereinafter, Mr.
Thornton is bringing Jargon's threatened Rule 11 motion to the Court's attention as it is based
upon the same misleading and evasive deposition testimony that forms the basis for the present
motion.

-5-

III. JARGON'S MISLEADING AND DECEPTIVE DISCOVERY RESPONSES
A. Jargon's Verified Complaint vs. Jargon's 30(b)(6) Deposition.
Jargon was previously a litigant before this Court. In 2004 Jargon filed a five count
complaint for trademark infringement against Entertainment Events, Inc., John Pratt and
Timothy P. Flaherty. See Ex. B., Verified Complaint, Injunctive Relief and Jury Trial Requested
("Jargon's Verified Complaint").2 Jargon's Verified Complaint was signed by Defendant Linders
in her capacity as the President and sole shareholder of Jargon. See id. pg. 17. In verifying the
complaint, Ms. Linders swore under penalty of perjury as follows:
I am the President and sole shareholder of J. Jargon Co. I have read the foregoing
Verified Complaint and know that contents thereof and the same are true of my
own knowledge, except as to such matters therein stated to be on information and
belief, and as to these matters, I believe them to be true.
See id. at pg. 17.
In Jargon's Verified Complaint, Jargon/Linders made a number of statements that are
directly counter to the statements made during Jargon's Fed. R. Civ. 30(b)(6) deposition. It
should be noted that, despite the fact that Linders is the President and sole shareholder of Jargon,
and the fact that Jargon has no employees, Linders was not designated as Jargon's Fed. R. Civ. P.
30(b)(6) representative. See Ex. C, Clouse Depo. At pg. 5, lines 17-18. Rather, Linders directed
that TOC employees, Ms. Catherine Clouse and Ms. Joanne Grant, testify on behalf of Jargon.
See Ex. D, Grant Depo. As noted in the following chart, the testimony from these two corporate
representatives directly contradicts the statements made by Linders in her Verified Complaint.

2

Holland & Knight LLP, by way of Gregg Thomas and James McGuire, represented the defendants in the 2004
trademark litigation. The undersigned attorneys were not involved in the prior litigation and Messrs. Thomas and
McGuire are no longer with Holland & Knight LLP.

-6-

Fed. R. Civ. P. 30(b)(6) Deposition
Testimony of J. Jargon Co.
Case No. 8:06-CV-1640-T27-TWG
(M.D. Fla.)

Verified Complaint
of J. Jargon Co.
Case No. 6:04-CV-251-ORL-19-KRS
(M.D. Fla.)

Q. Okay. Is J. Jargon involved in any way in The Show [Menopause the Musical] has been
producing Menopause the Musical?
playing to the public in the Orlando area
A. In the production?
continuously since the Spring of 2003,
Q. Yes.
presented and produced by Jargon.
A. No.
Clouse Depo. at pg. 5, lines 19-23.

Verified Complaint at ¶11.

Q. Okay. And other than licensing those rights
to companies that actually produce the musical,
does J. Jargon have anything else to do with
the musical?
A. No.
Q. So, other than licensing the intellectual
property rights to the musical, J. Jargon's got
nothing to do with the musical?
A. Pretty much, yes.

From 2001 through the present, Jargon has
consistently provided services relating to the
theatrical production of the Show [Menopause
the Musical], as well as sales and presentation
services, and has sold products bearing the
Mark MENOPAUSE THE MUSICAL to
customers in Florida and across the United
States.

Clouse Depo. at pg. 6, lines 14-22.

Verified Complaint at ¶13.

Q. Okay. So, just to be clear, other than
licensing these intellectual property rights, J.
Jargon really has nothing to do with the
musical, other than licensing the intellectual
property rights.
A. And the collection of royalties.
Q. And the collection of royalties.
A. Correct.

Jargon has presented the Show [Menopause the
Musical] before sessions of the United States
Congress and at several highly respected
national health conventions and universities.
Verified Complaint at ¶10.

Grant Depo. at pg. 6, lines 6-13.

-7-

Fed. R. Civ. P. 30(b)(6) Deposition
Testimony of J. Jargon Co.
Case No. 8:06-CV-1640-T27-TWG
(M.D. Fla.)

Verified Complaint
of J. Jargon Co.
Case No. 6:04-CV-251-ORL-19-KRS
(M.D. Fla.)

Q. [y]ou were here, were you not, for the
testimony of Miss Clouse, where she indicated
that J. Jargon is a holding company for the
intellectual property rights associated with
Menopause the Musical?
A. That's correct.
Q. And did you agree with her answer that, in
fact, J. Jargon is just a holding company?
A. To the best of my knowledge.
A. Okay. And that J. Jargon has no role in the
actual production of the musical?
A. That's correct.

The Show [Menopause the Musical] is
currently or has recently been presented by (or
by license from) Jargon in the following states:
Florida, New York, Illinois, Arizona,
California, Kansas, Pennsylvania, Texas and
Massachusetts.
Verified Complaint at ¶10.

Grant Depo. at pg. 5, lines 14-25; pg. 6, line 1..

Q. And J. Jargon has no role in providing Exhibit B to Verified Complaint includes
content that is included in the programs that are "Jargon's Promotional Materials" which
distributed in the musical?
includes a program with the Take the Age Test.
A. That's correct.
Verified Complaint at ¶14.
Grant Depo. at pg. 6, lines 1-5.

Thus, when Jargon was a plaintiff seeking to enforce its trademark rights before this
Court, Jargon swore that it both "presented" and "produced" the Musical and that it provided
"theatrical production" services as well as "sales and presentation services" related to the
Musical.

Now that Jargon finds itself in the position of being a defendant before this Court, it is

swearing under oath that it is merely a licensing entity and that it has nothing to do with
producing the Musical. Clearly, Jargon should not be permitted to maintain such divergent
positions before this Court.
Jargon's corporate representatives also maintained that Jargon played no role in providing
program content to third party producers of the Musical, such as G4. Yet, as demonstrated by

-8-

the exchange below, Jargon's corporate representatives initially expressed some uncertainty on
this issue, at least until a brief break was taken to confer with its attorney, Ms. Wasylik:
Q Let's talk about a licensed show where it's J. Jargon licensing to G4.
A Right.
Q G4 is the producer of the musical, okay?
A Okay.
Q Who is it that tells G4 what must be included in the program?
A I don't know, because I don't remember reading the contract specifically for that.
Q You don't know if it would be J. Jargon that would do that?
A What?
Q It would be J. Jargon that would tell G4, these are the requirements that have to be in
the program?
A I think ... I'm not sure.
Q Okay.
MS. WASYLIK: Can we take a little break?
MR. COLITZ: Sure.
MS. WASYLIK: Come outside.
(Break.)
BY MR. COLITZ:
Q We're back from a break, Miss Clouse, and
I'm just trying to determine if we're talking about a licensed show where J. Jargon is
licensing the performance to an entity such as G4, who tells G4 what requirements -what the requirements for the program are.
A Well, they're given ... given the rules about the equity which they know, and then
they're also given, you know, the graphics and things like that, which come out of the
TOC graphics department.
Q So it would be the TOC, T-O-C, Productions graphic department?
A Right.
Q That would tell G4, this is what should be included in the program?
A Right.
Q Okay. And it wouldn't be J. Jargon?
A No.
See Clouse Depo. at pg. 8, lines 20-25; pg. 9, lines 1-25; pg. 10, lines 1-14.

B. Jargon's Verified Complaint vs. Jargon's Interrogatory Answers.
Jargon interrogatory answers also conflict with its Verified Complaint. Namely, during
this litigation, Jargon provided interrogatory answers stating that "…Neither J. Jargon Co. or
Jeanette C. Linders has ever produced or printed programs." See Ex. E, Def. Jargon and Linders

-9-

Resp. to Second Interrog. at pg. 3. Here again, this position is flatly contradicted by Jargon's
Verified Complaint. Namely, attached as Exhibit B to Jargon's Verified Complaint are samples
of "Jargon's promotional materials" one of which is a program for the Musical prominently
featuring the Take the Age Test ! See Ex. B, Verified Complaint at ¶¶13-14. Again, Jargon has
adopted a first position before this court as a plaintiff and is now taking a contrary position now
that it finds itself in the role of defendant. Jargon should not be permitted to maintain such
clearly inconsistent positions before this court.

More to the point, Jargon should not be

permitted to use these deceptive and misleading statements as a basis for a motion for
reconsideration and/or a motion for sanctions under Rule 11.
IV. GOVERNING LAW
"The purpose of discovery is to obtain the disclosure of all relevant information so that
disputed issues are resolved fairly and justly in light of a full and accurate understanding of the
facts. Discovery operates with minimal judicial supervision absent a dispute requiring judicial
intervention. Discovery is accomplished voluntarily – that is, the parties disclose relevant
information without the need for court orders compelling disclosure. In this manner, lawyers do
their duty as officers of the court seeking the truth." See Sexton v. U.S., 2001 WL 649445, *1
(M.D. Fla.). (internal citations omitted).
A court can impose sanctions for discovery violations under either Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(b)
for violation of a court order, or upon its inherent power to mange its docket and its cases. See
In re Seroquel Products Liability Litigation, 244 F.R.D. 650, 657-64 (M.D. Fla.). "The key to
unlocking a court's inherent power is a finding of bad faith." See In re Sunshine Stores, Inc., 456
F.3d 1291, 1304 (11th Cir. 2006) (quoting Byrne v. Nezhat, 261 F.3d 1075 (11th Cir. 2001)). A
party can demonstrate bad faith by taking actions to delay or otherwise disrupt a litigation. See
id.
-10-

A wide range of sanctions are available for discovery violations. These sanctions range
from the most severe sanction of a dismissal or a default judgment to the lesser sanctions of an
adverse inference instruction to the jury or orders conclusively establishing the facts in question.
See Fed. R. Civ. P. 37(b). Overall, a court must be "flexible" in applying Rule 37 because
without adequate sanctions, procedures for discovery would be rendered ineffectual. See Wright
& Miller, Federal Practice & Procedure, 8A FPP §2281-2284. Ultimately, a "court is directed to
make such orders as are just and is not limited in any case of disregard of the discovery rules or
court orders under them to a stereotyped response." See id. at §2284.
V. ARGUMENT
Sanctions are unfortunately warranted in the present case. The differences between
Jargon's Verified Complaint in the earlier litigation and its discovery responses in present case
are too stark to be easily disregarded. When it suited Jargon in its role as plaintiff, it readily
admitted to being a "producer" of the Musical that provided "theatrical production" services as
well as "sales and presentation services" for the Musical. In its role as plaintiff, Jargon also
readily admitted that programs for the Musical -- programs that contained the Age Test -- were
examples of its promotional materials. Now that Jargon finds itself as a defendant, its story has
completely changed. Jargon now claims it never produced the musical. It claims that it has
absolutely nothing to do with the Musical, other than licensing performances to other production
companies. Likewise Jargon now disclaims having anything to do with printing or producing
show programs.
The clear conflict between these sworn statements, and the fact that Jargon's current
statement are aimed at avoiding liability for infringement, leads to the unmistakable conclusion
that Jargon's discovery responses were made in bad faith. This conclusion is only reinforced
when considering that Jargon used its misleading and deceptive responses offensively as the
-11-

basis to reconsider this Court's Summary Judgment Order and, later, after that motion was
denied, a motion under Fed. R. Civ. P. 11 against Mr. Thornton and his attorneys.
VI. CONCLUSION
Mr. Thornton respectfully seeks entry of an order imposing sanctions against Jargon for
misleading and deceptive interrogatory answers and deposition testimony in the present
litigation.

More specifically, Mr. Thornton seeks a jury instruction at trial detailing the

differences between Jargon's Verified Complaint and Jargon's Fed. R. Civ. P. 30(b)(6) testimony
and interrogatory answers. Mr. Thornton likewise seeks an instruction informing the jury that an
adverse inference should be drawn from Jargon's conflicting statements. Mr. Thornton also
seeks an order precluding Jargon from attempting to rebut any of the facts stated in the Verified
Complaint relating to Jargon and its role in producing the Musical and show programs. Should
the present motion be granted, Mr. Thornton would be willing to draft a proposed instruction for
the Court's consideration. Finally, Mr. Thornton seeks his attorneys' fees and costs associated
with the instant motion.

-12-

CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL RULE 3.01(g)
Plaintiff's counsel conferred with counsel for Defendants in a good-faith effort to resolve
the issues presented by this motion. However, the parties were unable to reach a resolution.

/s/Michael J. Colitz, III
William F. Hamilton
Florida Bar No. 379875
Stefan V. Stein
Florida Bar No. 300527
Michael J. Colitz, III
Florida Bar No. 164348
Woodrow H. Pollack
Florida Bar No. 026802
Holland & Knight LLP
100 N. Tampa Street
Suite 4100
Tampa, FL 33601-3644
Tel: 813/227-8500 Fax: 813/229-0134
william.hamilton@hklaw.com
stefan.stein@hklaw.com
michael.colitz@hklaw.com
woodrow.pollack@hklaw.com

ATTORNEYS FOR JOHN J. THORNTON

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on September 24, 2008 I electronically filed the foregoing with the
Clerk of the Court by using the CM/ECF system which will send a notice of electronic filing to
the following: G. Donovan Conwell, Jr., G. Wrede Kirkpatrick, Dineen Pashoukos Wasylik,
Conwell, Sukhia & Kirkpatrick, P.A., 2701 N. Rocky Point Drive, Suite 1200, Tampa, FL
33607.
/s/ Michael J. Colitz, III
Attorney
# 5626987_v2

-13-

