IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Plaintiff,
vs.
THOMAS R. RODELLA,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

CRIMINAL NO. 14-2783 JB

UNITED STATES’ MOTION IN LIMINE TO PERMIT EVIDENCE OF RIO ARRIBA
COUNTY SHERIFF OFFICE PROCEDURES AS PART OF THE TRAINING
MATERIALS
The United States moves this Court to permit evidence regarding the Rio Arriba County
Sheriff Office’s (RASO) Practices and Procedures for the limited purposes stated below:
INTRODUCTION
This case involves the allegation that Defendant Rodella tailgated, chased, assaulted and
caused the arrest of M.T. on March 11, 2014 in a fit of road rage. Defendant’s unlawful conduct
led to the instant indictment that charges the defendant with depriving the victim of his
constitutional right to be free from unreasonable seizure and the use of unreasonable force. A
large part of Defendant’s conduct included an unlawful “hot pursuit” of the victim.
In October 2010, Defendant Rodella attended a two-week course at the New Mexico Law
Enforcement Academy to become re-certified as a law enforcement officer prior to assuming his
new position as Rio Arriba County Sheriff in January 2011. During that course, the defendant
was thoroughly instructed on proper pursuit procedures. Part of the training required the
defendant to review and discuss Rio Arriba County Sheriff’s Office (RASO) procedures for
conducting pursuits.

The United States proposes to offer during its case-in-chief relevant evidence of the
training Defendant received, to include RASO’s pursuit procedures, for the limited purpose of
showing the defendant’s knowledge. The evidence would be offered via testimony by
Defendant’s instructors and the introduction of the actual training materials provided to the
students during the classes.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
To prove the Defendant Rodella’s conduct was willful within the meaning of 18 U.S.C.§
242, the United States must establish that he acted with the specific intent “to deprive a person of
a right which has been made specific either by the express terms of the Constitution or laws of
the United States or by decisions interpreting them.” Screws v. United States, 325 U.S. 91, 104
(1945). A “willful act” is one committed either “in open defiance or in reckless disregard of a
constitutional requirement which had been made specific and definite.” Id. The defendant must
know that what he is doing is wrong and yet choose to do it anyway, although he need not be
thinking in constitutional terms. Id. at 106. The Supreme Court has held that a defendant acts
with the requisite specific intent if he acts with a bad purpose - i.e., knowing that his actions are
wrong - with the effect of violating a clearly established constitutional right. See United States v.
Lanier, 520 U.S. 259 (1997).
As this Court has noted, the Tenth Circuit has held that evidence of the defendant’s
training in a civil rights case is admissible to demonstrate the reasonableness of the defendant’s
actions. Montoya v. Sheldon, 2012 WL 5476882 at *13 - 14 (D.N.M) (“The Court, therefore,
reads Weigel v. Broad as establishing that evidence of training is relevant and admissible
evidence of what is reasonable under the Fourth Amendment.”); Weigel v. Broad, 544 F.3d 1143,

2

1154, 1155 (10th Cir. 2008) (“the reasonableness of an officer’s actions must be assessed in light
of the officer’s training”).
Prior to its opinion in Montoya, this Court explicitly permitted evidence of the
defendant’s training on the use of a non-lethal firearm and on proper uses of force in a law
enforcement setting to show the defendant’s state of mind and knowledge. United States v.
Gould, 2007 WL 1302596 at *1. In Montoya, this Court explained its decision in Gould stating
that it “distinguished between a defendant’s conformity to SOPs as evidence of the objective
reasonableness of a defendant’s conduct and evidence of what he learned about the SOPs in his
training as evidence of his subjective willfulness.” Montoya, at 13, n. 5. In its limiting
instruction, this Court cautioned the jury: “You can only use the testimony about the training for
determining the defendant’s state of mind or their knowledge.” Id. 1
In the instant case, the United States proposes to offer evidence of the defendant’s
training, which included training on RASO’s SOPs, for the limited purpose of demonstrating the
defendant’s state of mind and his knowledge. This is critical evidence given that the United
States carries the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant acted willfully,
i.e., that Defendant Rodella knew during the pursuit of the victim that what he was doing was
wrong, and yet chose to do it anyway.
The United States is aware of the rulings of this Court and those of the Tenth Circuit,
which have held that violations of SOPs do not rise to the level of a constitutional violation.
This Court has recently discussed the prohibitive use of SOP violations in Ysasi v. Brown, 2014
WL 936326 (D.N.M.). Here, however, the United States does not intend to elicit opinion
testimony as to whether Defendant Rodella violated RASO’s SOPs or whether such violations

1

The United States has submitted a jury instruction that comports with the limited use instruction approved and
used by this Court in Gould.

3

represent a violation of the victim’s constitutional rights. Rather, the United States proposes to
offer evidence of the defendant’s training, which included a review of RASO’s SOPs, only to
show his state of mind and knowledge. As this Court has noted, evidence of a defendant’s
training on SOPs is admissible to demonstrate the defendant’s subjective willfulness. The
United States seeks to do no more with such evidence.
Furthermore, the relevance of RASO’s Policies and Practices is heightened by the fact
that, upon becoming sheriff in January 2011, the defendant expressly prescribed and adopted the
RASO procedures as his own. 2 Consequently, these procedures are the defendant’s own
admissions and admissible as non-hearsay. Fed. R. Evid. 801(d)(2)(B).
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, the United States respectfully requests that the Court follow the same
framework as described in Gould, and permit evidence of relevant training that the defendant
received to aid in determining whether the constitutional violation was willful.

Respectfully submitted,
DAMON P. MARTINEZ
United States Attorney
/s/ Filed Electronically
TARA C. NEDA
JEREMY PEÑA
Assistant United States Attorneys
P.O. Box 607
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87103
(505) 346-7274

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on September 9, 2014, I filed the
foregoing electronically through the CM/ECF system, which
2

The introduction to RASO’s Policies and Practices reads, in pertinent part: “I do hereby prescribe and adopt the
following as the Standard Operating Procedures Manual of the Rio Arriba Sheriff’s Office.”

4

caused the below counsel of record to be served by electronic
means, as more fully reflected on the Notice of Electronic
Filing.
Robert J. Gorence and Louren M. Oliveros
Counsel for Thomas R. Rodella
/s/ Filed Electronically
Jeremy Peña, Assistant U.S. Attorney

5

