Case 1:07-cv-01821-EGS Document 36 ~ Filed 11/29/2007 Page 1 of 10

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

 

MONUMENT REALTY LLC, et al., )
)
Plaintiffs, }
)
V. )

) Civil Action No. 1:07-cv-01821 (EGS)

) Judge Emmet G. Sullivan

WASHINGTON METROPOLITAN )
AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY, )
)
Defendant. }
)

 

PARTIAL OPPOSITION OF MONUMENT REALTY, LLC AND MR BALLPARK 7
LLC TO THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA'S MOTION TO ENLARGE

The District of Columbia acknowledges that, after having been served with a subpoena
requiring an expedited response more than a month ago, only now has it completed its first
search for responsive electronic documents. This initial search, conducted with 50 agreed-upon
search terms, netted an original 33,000 e-mails, which have now been reduced to 21,555 non-
duplicative e-mails and attachments that could "easily exceed" 45,000 documents. Motion to
Enlarge at p. 2. The District now claims that it may require an astounding 75 additional days to
print, review and produce all documents. While plaintiffs acknowledge that additional tume will
be needed to complete discovery in this matter in light of the District's position, and other
discovery matters discussed below, the District's request to enlarge time for a period of 75 days
is excessive and should be denied. The plaintiffs propose a compromise (described below) that
would require only a brief enlargement of time and would alleviate significant concerns of the

District. Although this compromise has been discussed with the District, the District steadfastly

declines.

10819516.1
Case 1:07-cv-01821-EGS Document36 Filed 11/29/2007 Page 2 of 10

I. THE OPTIONS OFFERED BY THE DISTRICT'S ARE NOT ACCEPTABLE

While plaintiffs are sympathetic with the District's situation, and its lack of staffing, the
District has declined the reasonable compromise offered by plaintiffs. The compromise would
require that the District make available the entire set of 21,555 e-mails and attachments that the
District currently has in its possession prior to the District's privilege review, subject to (1) broad
protections designed specifically to benefit and protect the District and cover all concerns raised
by the District, including a clawback provision that would allow the District to retrieve
documents marked "deliberative process privilege" or "attorney client" privilege, for which
plaintiffs would claim no waiver, and (2) other reasonable terms of a protective order preventing
the use of such documents for purposes other than this litigation.

This option would satisfy the District's concerns and effectively shift the costs of
reviewing the production to the plaintiffs, who have software capabilities and staff available in
order to receive, narrow and process such an electronic production, although not by the
preliminary injunction motion date now set for December 3. Plaintiffs believe this option
presents the best solution to the present problem and alleviates substantial burden and cost on the
District. The District's intransigence on this solution is unacceptable; they cannot claim they do
not have the staff or resources to make the production, and on the other hand deny plaintiffs the
opportunity to conduct the review in an manner most cost effective for them, all under the
concern for intra-mural governance and deliberative process privilege.

The District's compromise offer is to reduce the search terms to 3 terms. That search,
however, is so hopelessly narrow as to be virtually useless in that it excludes any reference to
communications or agreements between and among the Anacostia Waterfront Corporation

("AWC"), the District of Columbia, and/or WMATA. It is important to keep in mind that the
Case 1:07-cv-01821-EGS Document 36 Filed 11/29/2007 Page 3 of 10

development of the Baseball District is an ongoing process commenced years ago that involves
hundreds of people within the District of Columbia govemment, AWC and WMATA, as well as
others. Assuming that all of these players used the terms "Monument", "Akridge" or "bus
garage" when discussing the disposition of the Southeast bus maintenance facility and
Monument's or MR Ballpark's rights therein is not serious or realistic. In fact, the e-mails
Monument seeks are communications to which Monument was not a party, but which are central
to the case insofar as Monument has alleged in its complaint, that AWC and the District were
central players in this entire process. Indeed, it was the District and AWC who started the
process in the first place, by issuing a highly competitive Request for Expression of Interest
process which Monument won, and which conferred certain rights on Monument. First Am.
Compl. (hereinafter "Compl.") at 0x00A70x00A7 20-24. Therefore, Plaintiffs submit that this is an
unworkable and unfair option, and the District does not truly contend otherwise.

The District and plaintiffs have discussed and agreed upon a narrower set of search terms
of approximately 22, but the District cannot advise whether such a limited list will actually
narrow the amount of potentially responsive documents. While plaintiffs continue to be willing
to work with the District in this regard, it is likely that the scope of responsive documents will be
narrower, but not so limited that the District will be able to produce them within any reasonable
time, absent the clawback and other protections described above being implemented. Even if
such protections are implemented, the District has advised that it would not be in a position to
produce documents until all details of such agreements were worked out, and reduced to a
written agreement, which could take at least a few days. Therefore, plaintiffs respectfully

suggest that the option presented above is the most workable solution given the circumstances.
Case 1:07-cv-01821-EGS Document36 Filed 11/29/2007 Page 4 of 10

The District next suggests that its burden with respect to undertaking this production far
outweighs Monument's substantive need for these e-mails. The District pins its argument on the
creative, though false, pretext that the subpoena seeks "contextual" information about the
activities of AWC, a non-existent non-party. Motion at 3. This is false. Far from seeking
contextual information from AWC, Monument has asserted that AWC is at the core of the
transactions at issue, having (a) started the RFEI process to which Monument responded and
won and which conferred certain benefits and rights on Monument (Compl. at FJ 20-24); and (b}
negotiated on Monument's behalf for acquisition of the WMATA parcels in the Ballpark District
(see e.g. Compl. at euro 30). Former Mayor Anthony Williams specifically requested that WMATA
terminate or suspend a joint development solicitation for its properties in the Ballpark District so
that they could be included within, and in deference to, the AWC process (Compl. at | 17). The
District subsequently requested that WMATA suspend an initial invitation for bids in deference
to AWC's (and Monument's) rights (see id.). And, there may, indeed, have been an agreement
between AWC and WMATA to acquire the property for Monument's benefit, which one of the
parties ultimately reneged on (see id.), Far from being at the periphery of the action, AWC and
the District were central players in it.

Likewise, the District's contention that plaintiffs could lessen the burden on the District
by taking a deposition as WMATA has requested, is curious. This is a topic discussed on several
occasions with counsel for the District, at plaintiffs' suggestion. The District's response has
consistently been that there are no current employees who have substantive knowledge of the
topics and conduct of AWC, the District, and WMATA at issue in the case. Plaintiffs continue

to be willing to explore this option with the District; however, the taking of deposition on a
Case 1:07-cv-01821-EGS Document 36 _~ Filed 11/29/2007 Page 5of10

record devoid of any meaningful electronic or other production is substantively unfair and

unworkable.

IL. THE COST SHIFTING TEST DOES NOT FAVOR SHIFTING COSTS TO
PLAINTIFFS

Nowhere does the District even attempt to explain how shifting the costs to plaintiffs
would expedite the required discovery. In fact, only the plaintiffs have proposed a reasonable
solution which essentially shifts costs to them and which would meet a slightly enlarged
timetable, as discussed below. Plaintiffs would undertake this burden in exchange for having
immediate access to the documents. However, the District is unwilling to make any compromise
with Plaintiffs in order to make that happen. Such an intransigent position should not be
rewarded by simply shifting the costs to plaintiffs wholesale.

The District bears the burden of proving that cost shifting is appropriate, Zubulake v. UBS
Warburg, LLC, 217 F.R.D. 309 (S.D.N.Y. 2003) (case cited with approval by the District). The
principal basis for the District's argument that costs should be shifted is that the documents
sought are "tangentially relevant" to plaintiffs' claims. This argument has been addressed above
and is simply not correct. Likewise, the District fails to meet the substantial showing that must
be made in order to shift costs. In conducting this analysis, it is important to keep in mind that
the instrumentality that was at the core of the negotiations and proceedings in this matter was the
AWC. There is no doubt that the AWC, unlike other District agencies and offices, intended to
generate significant revenues and fees from its property placement operations. The Court should
consider this fact in determining whether to shift costs to the plaintiffs. AWC was not a typical
government agency; it held itself out as having significant economic clout in the District of
Columbia as a result of its position of authority. It and its successor, the Deputy Mayor's Office

for Economic Planning and Development, cannot simply ignore this fact.
Case 1:07-cv-01821-EGS Document36 Filed 11/29/2007 Page 6 of 10

The District fails to meet the standards set forth in the cases cited by the District, which

are not even adopted in this Circuit. Those factors include the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Likelihood of discovering critical information. Only AWC and the District have
information discussing and describing why the District was unable (if it was) to
reach an agreement with WMATA on the purchase of the bus maintenance
facility and with respect to its negotiations with WMATA and other D.C.
government agencies. This information is critical to plaintiffs in proving their
claims regarding the obligation of WMATA to offer the District the property at
issue and why such a transaction was never completed. Being a non-party does
not automatically mean the District's documents are less important, Motion at p.
6.

Availability of information from other sources: AWC and the District's internal
information as to the circumstances surrounding why the transaction was not
consummated with WMATA ({i.e., whether AWC believed a deal had been
reached, what AWC believed prevented a deal, and what AWC believed its
obligations (and WMATA's obligations) to plaintiffs were) cannot be gleaned
from a source other than the Distric's internal documentation.

The Amount in Controversy: While the amount in controversy is substantial, so is
the District's interest in defending its position, reputation, and conduct throughout
this important process, as evidenced through its own internal documentation.
Parties' Resources compared to the total cost of production: The parties
resources are relative. While plaintiffs have borne substantial costs and expenses

in prosecuting this litigation and in discovery efforts, they are not required to
Case 1:07-cv-01821-EGS Document36 Filed 11/29/2007 Page 7 of 10

(d)
(e)

(f)

(g)

shoulder the entire burden, particularly where the District is now acting on behalf
of the AWC and must devote resources to defending the economic activities
undertaken by it or its agencies or instrumentalities.

Ability of Parties to Control Costs: Both parties are equally able to control costs.
Importance of Issues at Stake: The importance of issues at stake to Monument is
apparent. The District obviously believes that there are important issues at stake,
otherwise it would permit the production of all 21,555 e-mails under the
circumstances described above. The District is plainly concerned about its
conduct in this regard and its reputational interests with respect to that conduct,
perhaps with good reason. The District suggests the need for intra-mural candor
in governance means it should not have to produce (Motion at 6); however, this
need pales significantly when the documents sought pertain to the rights of a non-
governmental party such as plaintiffs that are directly impacted by the
governmental conduct.

Importance of Discovery: The discovery is critical to several components of
plaintiffs' case, and plaintiffs do not otherwise have access to it, as described
above. The discovery is also, however, important to the District's interests in the
development of a critical new section of the City.

Relative Benefits: While there are substantial benefits to the plaintiffs in obtaining
this discovery, the District also benefits insofar as it is interested in determining
and knowing the conduct of its former instrumentality, AWC, and in being
prepared, if necessary, to defend itself from actual claims in connection with the

now apparently defunct AWC process for the Ballpark District.
Case 1:07-cv-01821-EGS Document 36 ~~ Filed 11/29/2007 Page 8 of 10

If. ENLARGEMENT OF DISCOVERY PERIOD

Plaintiffs acknowledge and agree that an enlargement of time for completion of discovery

in this matter has become necessary and expedient. This is the result of several factors, none of

them having to do with plaintiffs' lack of diligence.

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

First, WMATA itself acknowledges that any closing on the bus maintenance
facility will not take place until probably late January, 2008 at the earliest since
WMATA's Board of Directors meets on the fourth Thursday of each month and
the facility is not even on the Board of Director's agenda for December.

Second, WMATA produced yesterday (November 28) an additional 12,000
documents to plaintiffs which plaintiffs are just now beginning to review,
amounting to an additional 70,665 pages. This information is from the database
of key WMATA personnel and has already been reviewed by WMATA for
responsiveness prior to production;

Third, WMATA has today (November 29) produced two additional DVD*s
containing substantial additional information.

There are outstanding, albeit minor, discovery issues with The John Akridge
Company not yet resolved;

The District's position, even if the court orders the complete production of 21,555
e-mails under a clawback provision and protective order as discussed above, will
certainly mean that discovery cannot be complete by the current discovery cutoff
date of November 30 and even if it were, there would be no meaningful time at
this point for plaintiffs to review and digest the volume of information that will be

produced prior to its current briefing deadline of December 3.
Case 1:07-cv-01821-EGS Document36 Filed 11/29/2007 Page 9of10

Plaintiffs respectfully request that Court take into consideration that plaintiffs will file on
Thursday, November 29 a motion to extend the discovery period through mid-December and a
modified briefing schedule based on that requested date, for the Court's approval.

TV. CONCLUSION

Plaintiffs believe that the compromise position outlined above is the best solution for
resolving the discovery difficulties faced by the District within the tight timeframes of this case.
In light of its difficult position, the District cannot simply remain intractable with respect to
reaching a compromise that would relieve it of substantial burden and cost, its primary goals,
while allowing plaintiffs the opportunity they require to keep the discovery process moving and
to complete it expeditiously.

Date: November 29, 2007
Respectfully submitted,

NIXON PEABODY LLP

/s/ Louis FE, Dolan, Jr.

 

Louis E. Dolan, Jr. 64442881)
Vernon W. Johnson, II (#423756)
401 Ninth Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20001
202.585.8000

202.585.8080 (fax)
Idolan(@nixonpeabody.com
viohnson@nixonpeabody.com
Counsel for Plaintiffs

 
Case 1:07-cv-01821-EGS Document 36 _~ Filed 11/29/2007 Page 10 of 10

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on this 29th day of November, 2007, a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Partial Opposition to Motion to Enlarge was served by ECF upon:
Harvey A. Levin, Esquire
Thompson Coburn LLP
1909 K Street, Suite 600
Washington, D.C. 20006-1167

Counsel for Defendant

/s/ Vernon W. Johnson, Lil

 

Vernon W. Johnson, II

10
