Case: 3:11-cv-00727-bbc Document #: 52 Filed: 08/20/12 Page 1 of 9

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN
ESSOCIATE, INC.,
Plaintiff,
v.
AZOOGLE.COM, INC., and
EPIC MEDIA GROUP, INC.,
Defendants.

§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§
§

CIVIL ACTION NO. 3:11-cv-00727-bbc

DEFENDANTS’ OPPOSITION
TO PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND THE COMPLAINT

The Court should deny Essociate’s motion, which seeks leave to amend the complaint to
add a claim against Social Assets, LLC, and other “John Doe” defendants, based on several
successor liability theories. Essociate has no new information that would justify adding new
claims against new parties this late. The Court should deny Essociate’s request because it is
untimely and it would cause severe prejudice not only to Epic Media, but also to the new
defendants Essociate proposes to bring into the case. See, e.g., Sound of Music Co. v. Minnesota
Mining & Manufacturing Co., 477 F.3d 910 (7th Cir. 2007) (motion for leave to amend may be
denied if it is untimely and would cause unfair prejudice).
The Court should also deny Essociate’s motion because the amendment would be futile.
Epic Media has not engaged in any fraudulent transfer and Social Assets is not a mere
continuation or instrumentality of Epic Media. Essociate’s motion is based almost exclusively
on rank speculation in an offensive internet blog post, the title of which Essociate would not
even cite to this Court. C.f., Bethany Pharmacal Co. v. QVC, Inc., 241 F.3d 854, 861 (7th
Cir.2001) (an amended pleading that could not survive summary judgment is futile).

Case: 3:11-cv-00727-bbc Document #: 52 Filed: 08/20/12 Page 2 of 9

I.

Essociate was not diligent in seeking leave to amend its complaint.

Consider the timing of the motion for leave to amend the complaint. Essociate filed this
suit on October 21, 2011. The scheduling order set February 10, 2012 as the deadline to amend
pleadings. Dkt. No. 11. Essociate’s motion for leave to amend was not filed until August 6,
2012, nearly six months after the deadline. In this Court, significant amendments to the
complaint at this late date would require robust justification.
But the critical events involving Social Assets, LLC all occurred before the February 10,
2012 deadline to amend pleadings, as Essociate’s own declaration shows. Social Assets, LLC
was formed on November 18, 2011, Dkt. No. 49-3 (Exhibit C). Kinetic Social, the name under
which Social Assets does business, issued a press release quoting Don Mathis on January 4,
2012. Dkt. No. 49-1 (Exhibit A). Social Assets filed for federal registration the Kinetic Social
trademark on February 1, 2012. Dkt. No. 49-5 (Exhibit E). Had Essociate been paying attention
to the activities of Epic Media personnel, including Don Mathis, it would have known about
Kinetic Social long before now, and it should have investigated and amended its pleading by the
original deadline.
Essociate tries to justify its delay with the claim that it “recently learned that defendant
Epic Media Group, Inc. (‘Epic’) is apparently refusing to pay its debts and directing its clients to
pay another entity called ‘Kinetic Social’ instead of Epic.” The source of this information is a
June 6, 2012 internet blog post by Pace Lattin, entitled “How Epic Media Fucked Affiliates.”
Dkt. No. 49-12 (Exhibit L). Epic Media will debunk the misinformation in this blog post in
section III below, but the timing of this article is critically important. The posting was made on

2

Case: 3:11-cv-00727-bbc Document #: 52 Filed: 08/20/12 Page 3 of 9

June 6; Essociate sought leave to amend on August 6, two full months later. That two-month
delay alone demonstrates Essociate’s undue delay in seeking the amendment.1
Essociate tries to blame Epic Media for its delay in bringing this motion, but its argument
is misleading. Essociate contends that Epic Media’s failure to appear at the Rule 30(b)(6)
deposition noticed for July 6 prevented Essociate from asking questions about the relationship
between Epic Media and Social Assets. But Essociate’s Rule 30(b)(6) notice did not include any
topics specifically directed at Kinetic Social or Social Assets.2 Dkt. No. 49-17 (Exhibit Q). In
fact, counsel for Essociate has yet to seek written discovery concerning Kinetic Social or Social
Assets. Even if the Pace Lattin blog post were enough to justify an amendment of the complaint,
Essociate has no excuse for sitting on it in silence for two months.
II.

Epic Media, Social Assets, and multiple as-yet-unnamed defendants will
suffer severe prejudice if the amendment is allowed.

Essociate wrongly minimizes the prejudice that would be faced by Epic Media if the
amendment were allowed. Essociate cannot mask the very significant impact its new claims
would have on this case. Essociate does not seek merely to add another defendant accused of the
same infringement. Rather, the amended complaint adds three new causes of action: “successor
liability,” “alter ego liability” and “fraudulent transfer.” The amended complaint also
contemplates adding multiple “John Doe” defendants who, Essociate alleges, have improperly
received assets and corporate opportunities that rightfully belonged to Epic Media and its
creditors. These new claims would necessarily open up vast new areas of discovery reaching far
1

The June 6 date is suspect, too. The Performance Industry Insider blog had already posted on May 11, 2012 that
personnel from Epic Media had “separated parts of the company to form a new entity called Kinetic Social.” Dkt.
No. 49-14 (Exhibit N). Had Essociate been diligent, it would have sought written discovery regarding the
relationship between Epic Media and Kinetic Social in May. So actually Essociate waited at least about three
months to bring its amendment after it learned about Kinetic Social and its relationship to Epic Media.
2

The only arguable Rule 30(b)(6) topic having anything to do with Social Assets would have been topic no. 15,
regarding “financial information relating to You.” Dkt. No. 49-17 (Exhibit Q). Such a topic would not have
notified Epic Media that it should be prepared to provide testimony regarding the relationship between Social Assets
and Epic Media.

3

Case: 3:11-cv-00727-bbc Document #: 52 Filed: 08/20/12 Page 4 of 9

beyond the scope of the single infringement claim in the operative pleading that has governed
this case for ten months. Epic Media has made no secret of its financial difficulties and its
efforts to deal responsibly with its debts. Declaration of David Graff (filed with this brief and
referred to as “Graff Decl.”) ¶ 6. Essociate’s proposed amendment to the pleadings could make
every aspect of Epic Media’s debt workout an issue in this case.
Both sides have already sought and provided significant written discovery. Peterson
Decl. ¶ 11. Thus, the parties are now well along in discovery. Epic Media is preparing for the
scheduled October depositions and the November 5 expert witness disclosure deadline. There is
already a vast amount of evidence to manage in this case, and Epic Media can ill afford to be
diverted to defending Essociate’s vast, but unfounded, allegations that it has engaged in financial
misdeeds that have nothing specifically to do with the infringement allegations in this case.
Essociate’s delay in bringing the amendment is particularly prejudicial in light of the
activities that took place in the two months since the Pace Lattin blog post. Immediately after
Godfrey & Kahn appeared as lead counsel for the defendants on July 5, 2012, Mr. Peterson
informed the Court of the defendants’ intent to seek an amendment to the scheduling order (Dkt.
No. 41) and contacted counsel for Essociate to negotiate one. Declaration of James D. Peterson
(filed with this brief, and referred to as “Peterson Decl.”) ¶¶ 4-6. Mr. Peterson worked out a
stipulated motion to amend the remaining dates in the scheduling order, which was filed on July
10, 2012. Id., ¶ 8. At no time in the discussions of the case schedule did counsel for Essociate
mention the need to amend the pleadings, id., ¶ 10, despite the fact that Essociate learned about
Kinetic Social’s activities at least as early as June 6. Over the next week, counsel for the parties
worked out a schedule for fact depositions, to be held in Chicago in the first two weeks of
October. Id., ¶ 9. Again, counsel for Essociate did not mention any need to take discovery
concerning Social Assets potential successor liability. Counsel for Epic Media agreed to the
4

Case: 3:11-cv-00727-bbc Document #: 52 Filed: 08/20/12 Page 5 of 9

deposition schedule and arranged for the appearance of its witnesses under the impression that
those depositions would concern the range of issues relevant to the infringement case, not a
claim for successor liability. Only once Essociate had secured the Epic Media’s commitment to
the October depositions did Essociate move to amend the complaint, thereby significantly
expanding the scope of depositions.
III.

Essociate’s pleading is groundless and therefore futile.

The Court should also deny Essociate’s motion for leave to amend its complaint as futile
because Essociate’s amended claim could not survive a motion for summary judgment. Bethany
Pharmacal Co. v. QVC, Inc., 241 F.3d 854, 861 (7th Cir.2001). Even though discovery is still
open, Essociate should be able to point to a sound legal theory supported by some source of
admissible evidence, but it has not done so.
Essociate proposes to add three causes of action to support a successor liability, but each
cause of action relies on the same two core allegations: that Social Assets is a “mere
continuation” or “mere instrumentality” of Epic Media; and that Epic Media has fraudulently
transferred assets to Social Assets. Neither of these allegations holds water.
A.

Social Assets is not a mere continuation or instrumentality of Epic
Media.

Essociate does not spend much energy setting out the basis for its allegation that Social
Assets is a “mere continuation” or “mere instrumentality” of Epic Media. Apparently, Essociate
contends that because Social Assets is in the same general business and has some of the same
management as Epic Media, Social Assets is liable for Epic Media’s debts.3 But the cases cited
by Essociate do not support this theory.

3

Essociate cites the Connexus litigation as contributing to Epic Media’s financial difficulties, Essociate Brief at 4,
but it does not address the Connexus litigation in its argument. Connexus Corporation, another internet marketing
firm, was acquired by Epic Media in 2010. At the time of the acquisition, Connexus was already involved in
litigation, which was resolved by a confidential settlement and a stipulated judgment. Graff Decl. ¶ 9. Although the

5

Case: 3:11-cv-00727-bbc Document #: 52 Filed: 08/20/12 Page 6 of 9

Common management not does provide a basis for a successor liability claim, a point
made clear in Trustees of Arden v. Unity Construction Company, 2000 Del. Ch. LEXIS 7 (Del.
Ch. Jan. 26, 2000), the single authority Essociate cites for its “alter ego” cause of action.
Essociate Brief at 8. As the Delaware Chancery court put this basic point, “[o]f course, common
management of two entities does not, by itself, justify piercing the corporate veil.” Id. at *12.
Neither does common ownership: “The undisputed fact that Unity [one co-defendant] and
BGALLC [another co-defendant] have similar ownership is not sufficient to justify disregarding
their business forms.” Id. at *13. Thus, Essociate cannot justify imposing successor liability on
Social Assets merely because some of the management of Epic Media now works for Social
Assets or because the two entities are under common ownership.
Essociate’s “mere continuation” notion fares no better. In support of its “successor
liability” cause of action, Essociate again cites a single case, Schumacher v. Richards Shear Co.,
59 N.Y.2d 239, 451 N.E.2d 195 (N.Y. 1983), which it quotes to set out the circumstances under
which a successor corporation may be liable for the obligations of its predecessor. Essociate
Brief at 7. Essociate then suggests that Social Assets is merely continuing Epic Media’s business
because it is in the same line of business and is run by the same people. But that is not the sense
in which “mere continuation” was used in Schumacher. As the Court of Appeals of New York
explained, “the [mere continuation] exception refers to corporate reorganization, however, where
only one corporation survives the transaction; the predecessor corporation must be
extinguished.” Id. at 245. Because the defendant entity survived the purchase, the court rejected
the successor liability claim. Id. As in Schumacher, the “mere continuation” doctrine cannot not

litigation contributed to Epic Media’s financial difficulties, the creation of Social Assets occurred well before the
stipulated judgment and it does not reflect any intention to avoid Epic Media’s obligations. Id.

6

Case: 3:11-cv-00727-bbc Document #: 52 Filed: 08/20/12 Page 7 of 9

apply to Social Assets because Epic Media remains a going concern and an existing corporate
entity. Graff Decl. ¶ 7.
Social Assets is in a different line of business from Epic Media. See Graff Decl. ¶ 4
(providing a succinct explanation of the two businesses). Epic Media operated an affiliate
network; Social Assets does not. Id. Social Assets is a separate corporate entity, and it is not
Epic Media’ “successor” in any sense. There is absolutely no basis for imposing liability on
Social Assets under Essociate’s “successor liability” or “alter ego” causes of action.
B.

Epic Media has not transferred assets to Social Assets, fraudulently or
otherwise.

Essociate’s allegation that Epic Media has fraudulently transferred assets to Social Assets
is based entirely on the June 6 blog post by Pace Lattin. This allegation fails because it is merely
conclusory and there is simply no admissible evidence to support such a claim. Such a bald
allegation of wrongdoing would not survive either a motion to dismiss or a motion for summary
judgment.
Pace Lattin has no personal knowledge of Epic Media’s operations. Graff Decl. ¶ 10.
Thus, the Pace Lattin blog post would constitute inadmissible hearsay, even if it cited sources of
information. But the more fundamental problem is that the Pace Lattin blog post does not
identify any source of information concerning transfers of assets from Epic Media. Rather, the
blog offers only Pace Lattin’s “belief” and “suspicion” as to why Epic Media has not declared
bankruptcy:
So why isn’t Epic doing a bankruptcy? Simple: I believe that this
scheme that they planned could not currently survive bankruptcy
court. There is a principle called fraudulent conveyance, which in
the case of a bankruptcy means basically a company cannot
transfer profitable assets out of a company in order to protect them
from the debtors of the original company. If I am right about my
suspicions, what they did is possibly illegal if the purpose was to
keep from paying debtors.
7

Case: 3:11-cv-00727-bbc Document #: 52 Filed: 08/20/12 Page 8 of 9

Dkt. No. 49-12 (Exhibit L). This blog post simply does not contain, or even suggest the
existence of, admissible evidence that Epic Media fraudulently transferred assets to Social
Assets. Lattin’s speculations are false. Epic Media has not transferred any assets, fraudulently
or otherwise, to Social Assets, as shown by the declaration of David Graff, general counsel to
Epic Media and Social Assets. Graff Decl. ¶ 8. Epic Media is not instructing its clients to pay
Social Assets. Id., ¶ 5.
Epic Media recognizes this matter is before the Court on a motion for leave to amend,
and not on a decision on the merits. But the complete absence of any legitimate support for
Essociate’s allegation of a fraudulent transfer must count against Essociate as the Court
determines whether the amendment is in the interests of justice.
Conclusion
The Court should deny Essociate’s motion to amend its complaint. In the next weeks,
Epic Media and its counsel must prepare for extensive depositions and the disclosure of expert
reports. The radical expansion of this case to include successor liability claims against multiple
new defendants will impose severe unfair prejudice on Epic Media and those new defendants.
Such a significant amendment at this point in the case would require substantial justification, and
Essociate should have sought to develop these allegations much earlier if it wanted to press them
now. The baseless speculations of an internet blogger do not justify the amendment of the
complaint, and this Court should deny Essociate’s motion.

8

Case: 3:11-cv-00727-bbc Document #: 52 Filed: 08/20/12 Page 9 of 9

Dated: August 20, 2012

Respectfully submitted,
Godfrey & Kahn, S.C.
s/James D. Peterson
James D. Peterson
Bryan J. Cahill
Jennifer L. Gregor
One East Main Street
P.O. Box 2719
Madison, Wisconsin 53701
608-257-3911
608-257-0609 Facsimile
Attorneys for defendants
Azoogle.com, Inc and Epic Media Group, Inc.,
(f/k/a Azoogle.com, Inc.)

8338298_1

9

