UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE
AT KNOXVILLE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
v.
DAVID C. KERNELL,
a/k/a“rubico,”
a/k/a“rubico10,”
Defendant.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

No. 3:08-CR-142
Judges Phillips/Shirley

GOVERNMENT’S MOTION TO EXCLUDE DEFENSE EXPERT TESTIMONY UNDER FED. R. CRIM.
P. 16(D), FED. R. EVID. 401, 403, 702, 704(B)

The United States of America, by and through James R. Dedrick, United States
Attorney for the Eastern District of Tennessee, respectfully submits this Motion to
Exclude Defense Expert Testimony Under Fed. R. Crim. P. 16(b)(1)(C), 16(d)(2), Fed. R.
Evid. 401, 403, 702, 704(b). As set forth below, the defense has had ample time to
provide its expert disclosures in this case. The defense has failed to comply with its
disclosure obligations required under Fed. R. Crim. P. 16(b)(1)(C). The defense failure
to comply with the expert discovery requirements before trial undermines the purpose of
“pretrial” discovery and may reward the defense with an unfair advantage.
The government provided a copy of the seized hard drive from the defendant’s
Acer notebook computer in October 2008. The Court previously established discovery
deadlines in this case, based on the multitude of forensic issues raised. [Doc. 34] The
Court initially ordered the government to provide expert discovery by June 30, 2009, and
defense expert discovery by July 31, 2009. [Doc. 34] The government provided five

Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 1 of 16

forensic reports to the defense on June 29, 2009. The defense then requested additional
time to comply with the expert discovery deadline by August 30, 2009. [Doc. 71] The
defense represented that the additional thirty days would be sufficient to satisfy its expert
disclosure obligations. On August 21, 2009, the Court granted the defense Motion To
Extend Time for Expert Disclosure. [Doc. 75] On August 30, 2009, the defense
provided a bare summary of the proffered expert testimony along with the Curriculum
Vitae of Phillip C. Hampton. The Expert Disclosure is attached as Exhibit 1. As set forth
below, the defense expert testimony should be excluded since it fails to comply with the
discovery requirements and is otherwise inadmissible.
I.

Because Defendant Has Failed To Describe Philip Hampton’s Opinions, Or
The Bases Or Reasons For Those Opinions, Those Opinions Must Not Be
Admitted
“Under Daubert, trial judges must act as ‘gatekeepers’ to undertake a ‘preliminary

assessment of whether the reasoning or methodology underlying [expert] testimony is
scientifically valid.’” United States v. Pollard, 128 F.Supp.2d 1104, 1117 (E.D. Tenn.
2001) (citing Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharms., Inc., 509 U.S. 579 (1993)).
In part to assist the court in exercising this gatekeeping function, Rule 16 requires
parties to disclose in advance not just the opinions they propose to offer through experts,
but also the“bases and reasons” for those opinions. See Rule 16(b)(1)(C) (“This summary
must describe the witness’s opinions, the bases and reasons for those opinions, and the
witness’s qualifications.”). As the Supreme Court has noted, the expert disclosure also
assists the adversary process by allowing each party“a fair opportunity to assemble and
submit evidence to contradict or explain the opponent’s case.” Taylor v. Illinois, 484 U.S.
400, 410 11 (1988). Because the defense did not comply with the pretrial expert

2
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 2 of 16

discovery requirements (even with an extension of time), the proffered testimony, in its
current form, should be excluded at trial, under Fed. R. Crim. P. 16(d)(2)(C). Rule
16(d)(2)(C) provides that non-compliance with discovery obligations may result in an
order“prohibit[ing] that party from introducing the undisclosed evidence.” The Sixth
Circuit,1 and other courts,2 have repeatedly affirmed the exclusion of defense expert
testimony based upon the failure to satisfy the Rule 16 requirements.
Rule 16 requires that the defense expert summary“must describe,” among other
things, the opinions to be offerend and“the bases and reasons for” those opinions.3 The
Advisory Committee Notes amplify this requirement. Rule 16 requires:

1

United States v. Foley, 111 Fed.Appx. 840, 840-41, 2004 WL 2524262 (6th Cir. 2004) (“In a thoroughly
reasoned order denying Foley’s motion, the district court pointed out that Foley had violated the plain
language of Rules 12.2(b) and 16(b)(1)(C) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure by not filing, in a
timely manner, either his notice of intent to call an expert or his expert-witness summary. In addition, the
court expressed doubts as to whether the untimely expert-witness summary would satisfy the requirements
of Rule 16. Reviewing the pretrial proceedings as fully recounted in the district court’s order, we agree that
the court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the testimony of Dr. Abramsky.”); United States v.
Campbell, 81 Fed.Appx. 532, 2003 WL 22734836 (6th Cir. 2003) (“the district court acted within its
discretion to remedy Campbell’s Rule 16(b)(1)(C) failure-to-disclose violation by excluding Noe’s
testimony under Fed. R. Crim. P. 16(d)(2)(C)”).
2

See, e.g., United States v. Johnson, 219 F.3d 349, 358 (4th Cir. 2000) (“We cannot say that the district
court erred by excluding Brownlee’s testimony, because the Johnsons did not disclose required information
about the expert’s scheduled testimony to the government before trial,” under Fed. R. Crim. P.
16(b)(1)(C)); United States v. Barile, 286 F.3d 749, 759 (4th Cir. 2002) (“Because [defendant] Barile did
not give a proper summary of Sheridan’s opinion on materiality, failing to give the bases and reasons for
his opinions, the district court’s exclusion of this portion of his testimony is an acceptable remedy under the
rule.”); see also United States v. Heijnen, 149 Fed.Appx. 165, 168-69, 2005 WL 2271874 (4th Cir. 2005)
(“Because Heijnen admittedly did not provide the notice required by Fed. R. Crim. P. 16(b)(1)(C), the
district court would not have abused its discretion in excluding the witness if he had appeared at trial.”).
3

Rule 16(b)(1)(C) provides:
“(C) Expert Witnesses. The defendant must, at the government’s request, give to the government
a written summary of any testimony that the defendant intends to use under Rules 702, 703, or 705
of the Federal Rules of Evidence as evidence at trial, if -(i) the defendant requests disclosure under subdivision (a)(1)(G) and the government complies; or
(ii) the defendant has given notice under Rule 12.2(b) of an intent to present expert testimony on
the defendant’s mental condition.
This summary must describe the witness’s opinions, the bases and reasons for those opinions, and
the witness’s qualifications[.]”

3
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 3 of 16

“disclosure of the intent to rely on expert opinion testimony, what the testimony
will consist of, and the bases of the testimony. The amendment is intended to
minimize surprise that often results from unexpected expert testimony, reduce the
need for continuances, and to provide the opponent with a fair opportunity to test
the merit of the expert’s testimony through focused cross-examination. …
. [T]he
requesting party is to be provided with a summary of the bases of the expert’s
opinion.... That should cover not only written and oral reports, tests, reports, and
investigations, but any information that might be recognized as a legitimate basis
for an opinion under [FRE] 703, including opinions of other experts.”
Fed. R. Crim. P. 16 Advisory Committee’s Note (1993 Amendments).
Of these requirements, the defendant has only disclosed a generalized“intent to
rely on expert opinion testimony.” The defense has, in some cases, hinted at the general
subject matter upon which his expert will offer opinions, but has not provided adequate
notice of what those opinions are and has failed to provide any“bases and reasons” to
support any of those opinions. This is clearly insufficient. See, e.g., United States v.
Duvall, 272 F.3d 825, 828 (7th Cir. 2001) (noting Rule 16 requires the parties to provide
“a summary of the expected testimony, not a list of topics”).
The defendant, however, has provided a list of topics, but not conclusions. The
defendant discloses that Hampton will testify to “the time that elapsed” between the
defendant’s first attempt to access Governor Palin’s account and his success, but does not
disclose what that time is. Similarly, the defendant discloses that Hampton will testify to
“the amount of time that elapsed between the last activity on the computer and the time
that the” FBI seized it, but the defendant does not disclose what that amount of time was.
The defendant discloses that Hampton will testify to “[t]he significance of a document
being found in the ‘Documents’ folder,” but does not say what document he is talking about,
or what that significance is. The defendant discloses that Hampton will give an opinion
that there are “several legitimate uses for proxy programs,” but does not disclose Hampton’s

4
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 4 of 16

opinion of what those legitimate uses are. Finally, the defendant discloses that Hampton
“may be asked to comment upon the government methods or conclusions.” This is a
quintessential non-disclosure; the defendant must disclose what the answers will be, not
just the questions. What will Hampton’s“comment”be? Will he praise the government
methods or conclusions? Find fault? Suggest superior methods? There is no reason the
government, jury and Court should have to wait until the trial to find out.
The failure to disclose opinions is accompanied by a failure to disclose bases for
any opinions. Because Hampton is touted as an “expert in the field of computer forensics,”
one might assume that many of his conclusions will be supported by a forensic
examination of the defendant’s computer. But the defendant discloses almost nothing
about that examination. The defendant discloses that“Mr. Hampton will testify as to the
result of his examination of the contents of the hard-drive and other electronic evidence
provided by the government in discovery,” but the defendant discloses nothing about any
such examination: what examination did he conduct, when, and how? Indeed, the
disclosure is vague as to whether Mr. Hampton himself examined the hard drive: it
discloses that “[h]is firm has also conducted independent testing of the material,”
suggesting he did not do that examination personally. If so, how did he assure himself
that the examination done by an undisclosed other person was accurate?
If these examinations were used to support Hampton’s expert conclusions, this
information should have been disclosed. Information about what facts an opinion is
based upon is crucial to the Court’s gatekeeping function. Experts may not offer
conjecture or speculation unsupported by the facts; instead, expert testimony must be
“based upon sufficient facts or data,”and the expert must apply his principles and methods

5
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 5 of 16

“reliably to the facts of the case.” Fed. R. Evid. 702(1) & (3) (emphasis added); Daubert v.
Merrell Dow Pharms., Inc., 509 U.S. 579, 590 (1993) (“[T]he word ‘knowledge’ connotes
more than subjective belief or unsupported speculation.’”). Experts also cannot conceal
naked conjecture or guesses behind a few unrelated facts: “nothing in either Daubert or the
Federal Rules of Evidence requires a district court to admit opinion evidence that is
connected to existing data only by the ipse dixit of the expert. A court may conclude that
there is simply too great an analytical gap between the data and the opinion proffered.”
General Electric Co. v. Joiner, 522 U.S. 136, 146 (1997). Without any information
concerning the examinations that may have been conducted, there is no basis to support
any of the conclusions. While the defense may be impressed with Hampton’s resume, the
defense disclosure is clearly insufficient.
In addition to failing to provide information about any examinations and report,
the summary provides a series of ten conclusions, but no “bases and reasons” to support
them. All ten conclusions should therefore be excluded.
The government is not required to challenge each of the conclusions, as it remains
the defense’s burden and obligation to provide an appropriate summary that satisfies the
requirements of Rule 16. However, a few examples illustrate the conclusory and
unsupported opinions that are proffered. The ninth conclusion is vague and open-ended:
“9. Mr. Hampton will also explain that there are several legitimate uses for proxy
programs and will explain the significance of someone who knows how to use a
proxy program signing on to a site without using one.”
As noted above, this states no opinion. Nor does it tell us the ground for whatever
mysterious opinion Hampton might have on these subjects. What training and experience
does Hampton have that allows him to opine on whether a particular “use” is “legitimate”or

6
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 6 of 16

not? Has he used proxy programs for legitimate and illegitimate purposes? Is that
conclusion the product of scientific method, or is Hampton simply an opinionated
individual who is willing to testify to his personal views?
Continuing this insufficient notice, the summary states that the witness will
“explain the significance of someone who knows how to use a proxy program signing on
to a site without using one.” Not only is this conclusion irrelevant to the facts of the case
(as noted below), but the conclusion again is unsupported by any bases of support.
Apparently, the defense seeks to leave an open door at trial for the defense witness to
expound on any number of related topics that may relate to or fall under this conclusory
statement. This would allow the defense to attain an unfair tactical advantage at trial.
Rule 16 proscribes such efforts by requiring that any conclusions be amply supported by
bases and reasons in support.
On another matter, the defense proffers:
“1. Based on the material provided by the government, the time that elapsed
between the initial attempt to sign on to the Yahoo! account and the successful
guessing of the answers to the password reset questions was very short. Mr.
Hampton will also describe the time line regarding activity on the account until it
was blocked.”
As noted above, the defense provides no time line or description of conclusions drawn
from any time line. Nor does the defense disclose any facts that might support these
conclusions—
what logs did Hampton look at? Was there other evidence on the hard drive
that he contends is relevant? Doe the defense seek to surprise the Court, government and
jury with this information at trial for the first time?
In yet another example, the defense indicates:

7
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 7 of 16

“5. Mr. Hampton may explain the manner in which computers record data and the
process by which data can or cannot be deleted or erased. He will explain that all
internet browsers come with a built in tool to erase browsing history.
6. Mr. Hampton will explain the “defrag” tool and the fact that it is not an erasing
tool. There are a multitude of free erasing tools on the internet, and that there was
no evidence of the use of any of those tools on the computer in question.”
If the defense witness has an explanation, what is it and what are the bases in support?
Through what methodology did Hampton determine that a “defrag” tool does not erase?
Within the general subject of“the manner in which computers record data—
”a gigantic field
that occupies the life’s work of thousands of talented engineers—what is Hampton’s
particular training, experience, and qualifications?
Continuing this conclusory and open-ended pattern, the defense proffers that the
defense witness:

“10. Depending upon the forensic testimony introduced by the government, Mr.
Hampton may be asked to comment upon the government methods or
conclusions.”
As noted above, this is a non-disclosure; disclosing that a witness“may be asked to
comment” discloses nothing about what the witness will say. The defense has had the
forensic examination reports in this case since the end of June 2009. The defense
requested and was granted additional time to review the government forensic reports in
this case. The defense witness has twice indicated that he has read these reports. It is
unacceptable for the defense expert to opine about the“government methods or
conclusions”without specifying what testimony may be offered in this regard.
As these examples illustrate, the defense has clearly failed to comply with Rule
16. The defense should not be permitted to have a tactical advantage on these issues at

8
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 8 of 16

trial and should be barred from offering any purported“expert”testimony on these issues at
trial.
II.

The Proferred Expert Testimony Fails To Satisfy Fed. R. Evid. 702
The defense expert testimony also fails to meet the requirement of Fed. R. Evid.

702 for testimony involving “scientific, technical, or other specialized knowledge,” which
provides an independent, alternative ground to exclude the testimony. Some of the
proffered conclusions either are not the subject of expert testimony or are insufficient as
expert testimony without an explanation about what tests were conducted or how the
qualifications of the witness were used to arrive at the proffered conclusions.
Consequently, the Court may alternatively exclude the defense expert testimony as
unhelpful and speculative under Fed. R. Evid. 702.
Rule 702 mandates that expert testimony must “assist the trier of fact to understand
the evidence or to determine a fact in issue.” This helpfulness requirement is further
explained in the Advisory Committee Notes:
“Whether the situation is a proper one for the use of expert testimony is to be
determined on the basis of assisting the trier. ‘There is no more certain test for
determining when experts may be used than the common sense inquiry whether
the untrained layman would be qualified to determine intelligently and to the best
possible degree the particular issue without enlightenment from those having a
specialized understanding of the subject involved in the dispute.’ Ladd, Expert
Testimony, 5 Vand. L. Rev. 414, 418 (1952). When opinions are excluded, it is
because they are unhelpful and therefore superfluous and a waste of time. 7
Wigmore § 1918.”
Fed. R. Evid. 702 (Advisory Committee Notes). As the Supreme Court has noted on this
requirement: “Rule 702's ‘helpfulness' standard requires a valid scientific connection to the
pertinent inquiry as a precondition to admissibility.” Daubert v. Merrell Dow

9
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 9 of 16

Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 509 U.S. 579, 590-91 (1993). The defense fails to meet this
precondition for its expert testimony in this case.
Where, as here, the expert testimony does not assist the finder of fact, and “merely
restate[s] generic” observations that could be drawn by the lay person, the testimony may
be deemed “unhelpful” and appropriately excluded.4 The defense summary provides in
part:
“1. Based on the material provided by the government, the time that elapsed
between the initial attempt to sign on to the Yahoo! account and the successful
guessing of the answers to the password reset questions was very short. Mr.
Hampton will also describe the time line regarding activity on the account until it
was blocked.”
The defense has not indicated why expert testimony is needed to show that the elapsed
time was short. If this conclusion is based upon a review of the hard drive, no report has
been provided to show what, if any, tests were used to draw this conclusion. It remains
unclear how the expert has reached this conclusion or the basis for it.
In the following paragraphs, the defense again fails to explain why these topics
are the matter of expert testimony, how the defense expert arrived at these conclusions,
what if any tests were conducted:

4

Rice v. Fox Broadcasting Co., 330 F.3d 1170, 1180 (9th Cir. 2003) (district court disregarded expert
witness testimony in summary judgment motion as unhelpful because of its “abstract” nature and it “merely
restated generic” ideas); see also United States v. Vallejo, 237 F.3d 1008, 1020 (9th Cir. 2001), as
amended, 246 F.3d 1005, 1016 (9th Cir. 2001) (one factor governing admissibility of expert testimony is
whether it addresses an issue beyond the common knowledge of the lay person); Ancho v. Pentek Corp.,
157 F.3d 512, 519 (7th Cir. 1998) (“an expert, if he is to give testimony to assist jury members and expand
their knowledge of the product and its capabilities in its specific manufacturing process, must testify to
something more than what is ‘obvious to the layperson’ in order to be of any particular assistance to the
jury”; The expert witness’s “professed knowledge of, and expertise in, mechanical engineering, by itself,
falls short of qualifying him as an expert to render an opinion with respect to redesigning” the production
facility) (citation omitted); Beech Aircraft Corp. v. United States, 51 F.3d 834, 841-842 (9th Cir. 1995) (in
bench trial judge excluded expert testimony purporting to decipher taped messages received by air traffic
control, finding that trier was in equal position as the expert to determine what could be heard on tapes).

10
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 10 of 16

“2. The Yahoo! account had been set up using very simple password reset
questions. The answers to those questions were available on easily accessible
public web sites.
3. Anyone with an internet connection can access the Yahoo! server, including the
password reset page for any Yahoo! e-mail address.
4. The process of resetting the password in this case took no specialized computer
skills.
7. The significance of a document being found in the“Documents” folder on a
Windows computer is that it indicates no effort to conceal the file.
8. Mr. Hampton will also describe the amount of time that elapsed between the
last activity on the computer and the time that the Federal Bureau of Investigation
removed the computer from Mr. Kernell’s desk.”
Without any bases to explain the bare conclusions, the defense expert testimony should
be excluded under FRE 702 as speculative and conjectural. For example, it remains
unclear what, if any, examination was conducted by the defense, which may explain the
unfounded conclusions. See, e.g., Washington v. Armstrong World Indus., Inc., 839 F.2d
1121, 1123-24 (5th Cir. 1988) (excluding expert’s testimony where expert never examined
the plaintiff and the cause of death was “pure speculation”); see also Jones v. Goodlove,
334 F.2d 90, 94 (8th Cir. 1964) (“[A] trial court may abuse its discretion by allowing a
seemingly qualified expert to exceed the permissible bounds of opinion testimony and
enter into the realm of utter speculation and conjecture.”). The Court, jury and
government should not hear for the first time at trial what explanations the defense expert
will provide or what bases there are, if any, to support these conclusions.
III.

The Proffered Expert Testimony Is Irrelevant, under Fed. R. Evid. 401, Or
Excludable Under Fed. R. Evid. 403
As another independent basis to exclude the proffered expert testimony, some of

the conclusions are irrelevant to the facts of this case, and should be excluded under Fed.

11
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 11 of 16

R. Evid. 401 and 402.5 As an initial matter, the fails defense fails to provide any specific
dates or times to connect the general propositions to the facts in this case.
The following vague and ambiguous conclusions are irrelevant to issues at trial:
“3. Anyone with an internet connection can access the Yahoo! server, including the
password reset page for any Yahoo! e-mail address.
4. The process of resetting the password in this case took no specialized computer
skills.
5. Mr. Hampton may explain the manner in which computers record data and the
process by which data can or cannot be deleted or erased. He will explain that all
internet browsers come with a built in tool to erase browsing history.
6. Mr. Hampton will explain the “defrag” tool and the fact that it is not an erasing
tool. There are a multitude of free erasing tools on the internet, and that there was
no evidence of the use of any of those tools on the computer in question.
7. The significance of a document being found in the“Documents” folder on a
Windows computer is that it indicates no effort to conceal the file.
8. Mr. Hampton will also describe the amount of time that elapsed between the
last activity on the computer and the time that the Federal Bureau of Investigation
removed the computer from Mr. Kernell’s desk.
10. Depending upon the forensic testimony introduced by the government, Mr.
Hampton may be asked to comment upon the government methods or
conclusions.”
On the third paragraph, whether anyone with an internet connection could access a
Yahoo! server is irrelevant to whether the defendant’s access in this case was authorized.
On the fourth paragraph, whether specialized computer skills can be used to access a
Yahoo! account is not probative of the defendant’s conduct in this case. The issue
concerns the defendant’s intent not whether he required specialized skills to access the
account.
5

Relevant evidence is defined as “evidence having any tendency to make the existence of any fact that is of
consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it would be without the
evidence.” Fed. R. Evid. 401. Fed. R. Evid. 402 provides that “[e]vidence which is not relevant is not
admissible.”

12
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 12 of 16

On the fifth paragraph, the defense fails to explain how the general conclusion
bears on any dates or facts in this case. As a general proposition, it is irrelevant to the
triable issues.
The sixth paragraph is also irrelevant. There may be a multitude of ways to delete
evidence. Any method is sufficient to support an obstruction of justice charge along with
supporting facts.
The seventh paragraph is also vague and irrelevant.
The eighth paragraph involves conduct after the charged offense and is not
relevant to the charges.
The final paragraph is vague and irrelevant.
Assuming arguendo that the foregoing proffer is admissible under Fed. R. Evid.
401, the same testimony should be excluded under Fed. R. Evid. 403.6 The foregoing
allegations, which presently are vague and ambiguous, will only confuse the issues in the
case, mislead the jury and consume time in presenting the case. For example, whether
specialized skills are necessary to access a Yahoo! account should be excluded under
Rule 403 as raising confusion, misleading the jury, risk of unnecessary delay, and allow
unfairly prejudicing evidence to be admitted. Similarly, in this case, expert testimony
concerning other deletion tools will serve to confuse and mislead the jury and
unnecessarily consume time on tangential issues. Of the many tools that may be used to
delete evidence, only one is needed. There is no reason for the jury to be informed of
other tools on the market.

6

Fed. R. Evid. 403 permits the exclusion of relevant evidence “if its probative value is substantially
outweighed by the danger of [1] unfair prejudice, [2] confusion of the issues, or [3] misleading the jury, or
[4] by considerations of undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.”

13
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 13 of 16

IV.

The Defense Expert Seeks To Provide Impermissible Testimony Concerning
The Defendant’s Mental State
As another ground to exclude some of the expert testimony, the defense witness

proffers several opinions concerning the defendant’s mental state which are prohibited by
Fed. R. Evid. 704(b) and invade the province of the jury.7 These opinions should be
excluded at trial.
For example, the defense proffer indicates the defense witness plans to opine
about the intent issues in this case, including:
“7. The significance of a document being found in the“Documents” folder on a
Windows computer is that it indicates no effort to conceal the file.
8. Mr. Hampton will also describe the amount of time that elapsed between the
last activity on the computer and the time that the Federal Bureau of Investigation
removed the computer from Mr. Kernell’s desk.
9. Mr. Hampton will also explain that there are several legitimate uses for proxy
programs and will explain the significance of someone who knows how to use a
proxy program signing on to a site without using one.”
Rule 704(b) strictly limits expert evidence regarding the issue of a the defendant’s ability
to form the requisite mental attempt. Under Rule 704(b), “[a] prohibited ‘opinion or
inference’ under Rule 704(b) is testimony from which it necessarily follows, if the
testimony is credited, that the defendant did or did not possess the requisite mens rea.” Id.
The defense should not be permitted to provide expert testimony in violation of Rule
704(b).

7

Rule 704(b) provides:

“(b) No expert witness testifying with respect to the mental state or condition of a defendant in a
criminal case may state an opinion or an inference as to whether the defendant did or did not have
the mental state or condition constituting an element of the crime, charged or of a defense thereto.
Such ultimate issues are matters for the trier of fact alone.”

14
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 14 of 16

V.

Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, the government respectfully moves to exclude and bar

testimony of the defense expert, based Fed. R. Crim. P. 16, the Federal Rules of
Evidence, and established precedent.
Respectfully submitted this 9th day of September, 2009.
JAMES R. DEDRICK
United States Attorney
S/ D. Gregory Weddle
S/ Mark L. Krotoski
S/ Josh Goldfoot
_______________________
D. Gregory Weddle
Mark L. Krotoski
Assistant U.S. Attorney
800 Market Street, Suite 211
Knoxville, TN 37902
865-225-1710

Josh Goldfoot
Computer Crime & Intellectual Property
Section
Criminal Division
U.S. Department of Justice
1301 New York Ave. NW
Washington, DC 20005

15
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 15 of 16

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on September 9, 2009, a copy of the foregoing
Government’s Motion to Exclude Defense Expert Testimony Under Fed.
R. Crim. P. 16(d), Fed. R. Evid. 401, 403, 702, 704(b)
was filed electronically. Notice of this filing will be sent by operation of the Court’s
electronic filing system to all parties indicated on the electronic filing receipt. All other
parties will be served by regular U.S. mail. Parties may access this filing through the
Court’s electronic filing system.

S/ D. Gregory Weddle
_______________________
D. Gregory Weddle
Assistant U.S. Attorney
800 Market Street, Suite 211
Knoxville, TN 37902
865-225-1710

16
Case 3:08-cr-00142 Document 81

Filed 09/09/09 Page 16 of 16

