Case: 3:16-cv-00515-wmc Document #: 31 Filed: 10/25/16 Page 1 of 8

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN
PAMELA KILTY, Individually and as
Special Administrator of the Estate of Elvira
Kilty, PAUL KILTY, DAVID L. KILTY,
WILLIAM J. KILTY, and JAMES S. KILTY
Plaintiffs,
v.

Case No. 16-CV-515

WEYERHAEUSER COMPANY, et al.,
Defendants.
PLAINTIFFS’ RESPONSE IN OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT WEYERHAEUSER
COMPANY’S MOTION TO STAY PROCEEDINGS
Now Comes Plaintiffs, by and through their undersigned counsel of record, and hereby
oppose Defendant Weyerhaeuser Company (“Weyerhaeuser” or “Defendant”)’s Motion to Stay
Proceedings to the extent that Defendant’s motion seeks to stay fact discovery as well. Defendant’s
motion should be denied for the reasons stated herein.
INTRODUCTION
As an initial matter, Plaintiffs agree that the legal issues should be stayed until the appeal
of the related six Marshfield cases in the Seventh Circuit is resolved. Most, but not all, of the
arguments presented by Weyerhaeuser in its initial Motion to Dismiss in the instant matter were
previously submitted to this Court and are the subject of appeal. Yet the outcome in the Court of
Appeals will not be dispositive of all issues in the Kilty litigation.
Weyerhaeuser makes no showing that the Kilty case will not require discovery to develop
evidence. Discovery in the Kilty case is governed primarily by the procedures in Rule 26(e) and
(f). Kilty is not in the posture of a Rule 27(b) discovery pending appeal such as Weyerhaeuser’s

1

Case: 3:16-cv-00515-wmc Document #: 31 Filed: 10/25/16 Page 2 of 8

motion presumes. Rather than be concerned with a non-dispositive appeal, this Court should focus
on the Rule 16 scheduling that is needed to effectuate the Rule 26(e) and (f) requirements to begin
advancing the case for trial.1
The earlier rulings of this Court on motions to dismiss were not dispositive of the individual
claims. For example, the community exposure, family member household, public nuisance, and
punitive damages claims were all allowed to go forward to trial. The viability of these claims is
not on appeal. Ultimately all six of the earlier mesothelioma cases (Kilty is also a mesothelioma
case) were the subject of summary judgment and Daubert motions that involved briefing based on
extensive fact discovery of the individual case evidence and the application of scientific evidence
to the facts of each case. The discovery relating to summary judgment must go forward in Kilty,
regardless of the outcome of the Seventh Circuit appeal.
Importantly, Plaintiffs have alleged additional claims against Weyerhaeuser in this matter,
namely common law negligence, and made other changes in pleadings that were not alleged in the
prior Marshfield cases. At the very least, Plaintiffs should be permitted to conduct discovery on
the claims that will not be affected by the outcome of the Seventh Circuit appeal and these new
allegations.
Weyerhaeuser’s motion to dismiss, itself, establishes the need for discovery on a new key
issue of scientific evidence, which Weyerhaeuser claims to be dispositive. Weyerhaeuser argues
that presence of a “single, indivisible injury” means the claims must be dismissed even for
community and family member take home exposures. The argument presents a disputed fact issue
and requires expert scientific evidence be developed through reports and other discovery.

1

Plaintiffs note the appellate orders and briefing schedule of the six pending appeals preoccupied the parties and
diverted attention from Kilty case discovery The current briefing schedule in the Court of Appeals calls for the reply
brief to be filed on Decmeber 14, 2016.

2

Case: 3:16-cv-00515-wmc Document #: 31 Filed: 10/25/16 Page 3 of 8

For these and other reasons stated below, Plaintiffs respectfully request that fact discovery
be permitted to continue, and Defendant’s Motion to Stay be denied to the extent that it seeks to
stay the progress of discovery in the instant matter.
ARGUMENT
“It has long been recognized that trial courts are vested with broad discretion to manage
the conduct of discovery.” Chavous v. Dist. of Columbia Fin. Responsibility & Mgmt. Assistance
Auth., 201 F.R.D. 1, 2 (D.D.C. 2001) (citing Brennan v. Int’l Bhd. of Teamsters, 494 F.2d 1092,
1100 (D.C. Cir. 1974)). “The right to proceed in court should not be denied except under the most
extreme circumstances.” Klein v. Adams & Peck, 436 F.2d 337, 339 (2d Cir. 1971). It is true that
courts must “balance interests favoring a stay against interests frustrated by the action in light of
the court’s strict duty to exercise jurisdiction in a timely manner.” Grice Eng’g, Inc. v. JG
Innovations, Inc., 691 F. Supp. 2d 915, 920 (W.D. Wis. 2010) (internal citations omitted). On the
other hand, “[o]nly in rare circumstances will a litigant in one cause be compelled to stand aside
while a litigant in another settles the rule of law that will define the rights of both.” Landis v. N.
Am. Co., 299 U.S. 248, 255 (1936).
Other courts have used their discretion to permit discovery to continue while precluding
the proceedings to reach trial and declining to act upon any motions for summary judgment. For
example, in Hill v. PeopleSoft USA, Inc., 341 F. Supp. 2d 559, 561 (D. Md. 2004), the district
court declined to issue a stay of all proceedings after the filing of a notice of interlocutory appeal,
and stated: “this Court will not permit the proceedings to reach the state of a trial, nor will the
Court act upon any motions for summary judgment. The Court will, however, permit discovery
to move forward and it will permit the parties to amend their pleadings.”

3

Case: 3:16-cv-00515-wmc Document #: 31 Filed: 10/25/16 Page 4 of 8

I.

Although related, the issues on appeal to the Seventh Circuit are not clearly
dispositive so as to warrant a complete stay discovery in the present action.
No matter the outcome of the appeal, Plaintiffs are entitled to a right to discovery. At the

very least, Plaintiffs are entitled to discovery related to Plaintiffs’ common law negligence, public
nuisance, and punitive damages claims because the outcome of the Seventh Circuit appeal will not
be completely dispositive. “[A] stay of discovery . . . ‘is rarely appropriate when the pending
motion will not dispose of the entire case[.]’” Chavous, 201 F.R.D. at 3 (quoting Keystone Coke
Co. v. Pasquale, No. 97-6074, 1999 WL 46622, at *1 (E.D. Pa. Jan. 7, 1999)).
In CMFG Life Ins. Co. v. Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, No. 14-cv-249-wmc, 2015
WL 4647000, at *1-2 (W.D. Wis. Aug. 5, 2015), this Court denied a motion to stay where the
appeal of a related case was pending in the Seventh Circuit. This Court reasoned as follows:
As [the moving party] contends, the eventual decision in the [related
case on appeal] may well provide helpful guidance with respect to
[the moving party’s] claim for rescission in this action, which
closely mirrors those it asserted in [the related case on appeal], but
the court is not persuaded that a stay is necessary at this stage of the
litigation. Indeed, the issues on appeal to the Seventh Circuit in [the
related case] are not clearly dispositive of the issues in this case at
present. [The moving party] does not even argue as much.
Moreover, given the early stage of this litigation, the [related case
on appeal] will likely have issued by the time any of the overlapping
issues arise in this matter. Regardless, no purpose would be served
by delaying a decision on the presently pending, unrelated motions.
Id. at *2.
The CMFG court’s analysis is particularly instructive to the present matter. In the related
Marshfield cases on appeal, summary judgment was denied where the plaintiffs “not only worked,
but lived for at least one year within a 1.25 mile radius of the plant that scientific studies suggest
may meaningfully increase their risk of development mesothelioma; . . .” Boyer v. Weyerhaeuser
Company, No. 14-cv-286, 2016 WL 705233, at *1 (W.D. Wis. Feb. 19, 2016) (slip copy).
Summary judgment was also denied on family member take-home exposures of significant
4

Case: 3:16-cv-00515-wmc Document #: 31 Filed: 10/25/16 Page 5 of 8

duration. These rulings are not raised on appeal to the Seventh Circuit, and the evidence in
discovery proceedings will demonstrate that Plaintiffs’ claims are within the factual parameters
needed to survive summary judgment.
Further, this Court did not issue rulings in the prior Marshfield cases related to the newly
pled common law negligence claim against Weyerhaeuser in Kilty. Consequently, the issues on
appeal have no bearing on Plaintiffs’ current common law negligence claim.
II.

Staying all proceedings, including discovery, will not reduce the burden of litigation
on the parties and on the court and will unduly prejudice Plaintiffs.
Weyerhaeuser’s motion is premised on the fact that the majority of discovery is complete

because Plaintiffs’ claims arise out of similar circumstances to the other Marshfield cases.
Although the relationship between the parties is substantially similar to that of the Marshfield cases
on appeal, the Kilty litigation is ultimately based upon in its own unique set of facts. The evidence
needs to be developed, including coworker and family member exposure evidence and
medical/industrial hygiene expert opinions that may only be offered once the full factual
background of the Decedent’s asbestos exposures is established. For example, the following
discovery, without limitation, is needed in the current litigation and will differ from and/or
supplement the prior discovery in the other Marshfield cases:


Document requests for the Weyerhaeuser employee records, including but not limited
to those of Elvira Kilty and other family members necessary to Plaintiffs’ claims;



Deposition of Elvira Kilty’s aging co-workers from the Weyerhaeuser Marshfield
plant;2



Discovery of scientific evidence bearing on the factual defense by Weyerhaeuser that
the disease mesothelioma is a “single, indivisible injury”;

2

Age alone for witnesses over age 70 is sufficient grounds to require discovery to go forward despite other pending
litigation that might affect the outcome. Texaco v. Borda, 383 F.2d 607 (3rd Cir. 1967.)

5

Case: 3:16-cv-00515-wmc Document #: 31 Filed: 10/25/16 Page 6 of 8



Deposition of other community witnesses who will testify to the plant conditions,
household exposures, and community exposures relevant to the present matter;



Deposition of several past and present Weyerhaeuser employees regarding the
industrial hygiene practices of the Marshfield plant, environmental practices, document
retention policies, and other issues that were not fully developed in the prior Marshfield
cases that is relevant to the instant litigation;



Discovery of Weyerhaeuser practices and procedures relating to the changing of
contaminated clothing at work or the laundering at home of such clothing worn by
Decedent, Ms. Kilty;



Revisions and supplements to expert reports;



Document requests for the Roddis/Weyerhaeuser purchase agreements;



Document requests for air quality ambient records; and



Non-party discovery of records of the new Marshfield plant owner.

Many of the above fact witnesses are retired, aging, and may develop their own maladies that will
impair their mental or physical abilities. Plaintiffs will be unduly prejudiced if precluded from
deposing fact witnesses in a timely manner.
Additionally, prior to trial in the Marshfield plant case of Boyer v. Weyerhaeuser, No. 14cv-286, the court denied plaintiffs’ motion for a spoliation jury instruction based on finding that
necessary discovery had not been undertaken earlier. “Even assuming plaintiff’s basic allegations
had merit, the proper route would have been to raise this issue in a discovery-related motion, giving
the court and defendant an opportunity to consider an appropriate sanction, . . .” See Opinion and
Order in Boyer v Weyerhaeuser Company, No. 14-cv-286, Doc. #552 (W.D. Wis. May 5, 2016).
This same issue of spoliation is ripe in the Kilty litigation, and discovery on the matter must go
forward.
Finally, staying the proceedings will not reduce the burden of litigation on the parties
because all of the aforementioned discovery will be necessary to develop Plaintiffs’ common law
negligence, public nuisance, and punitive damages claims against Weyerhaeuser, which, as

6

Case: 3:16-cv-00515-wmc Document #: 31 Filed: 10/25/16 Page 7 of 8

discussed supra, have no threat of being completely disposed pending the outcome of the Seventh
Circuit appeal.
WHEREFORE, for the reasons stated herein, Plaintiffs respectfully request that this Court
grant in part the Motion to Stay as to the legal issues pending in the Seventh Circuit and deny the
Motion to the extent that it seeks to delay discovery.

This 25th day of October, 2016
Respectfully submitted,
COUNSEL FOR PLAINTIFFS
/s/ John E. Herrick
John E. Herrick
Nathan D. Finch
Meredith K. Clark
MOTLEY RICE LLC
28 Bridgeside Blvd.
Mt. Pleasant, SC 29464
Phone: (843) 216-9000
Facsimile: (843) 216-9450
jherrick@motleyrice.com
nfinch@motleyrice.com
mkclark@motleyrice.com
and
Robert G. McCoy
Daniel B. Hausman
CASCINO VAUGHAN LAW OFFICES, LTD.
220 S. Ashland Avenue
Chicago, IL 60607
Phone: (312) 944-0600
Facsimile: (312) 944-1870
bmccoy@cvlo.com
dhausman@cvlo.com

7

Case: 3:16-cv-00515-wmc Document #: 31 Filed: 10/25/16 Page 8 of 8

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on October 25th, 2016, I electronically filed the foregoing with the
Clerk of Court using the ECF system which will send notification of such filing to all counsel of
record.

/s/John E. Herrick
John E. Herrick
MOTLEY RICE LLC
28 Bridgeside Blvd.
Mt. Pleasant, SC 29464
(843) 216-9000

8

