 

Case 1:13-cv-01861-JEJ Document 77 Filed 11/26/13 Page 1 of 12

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

Deb Whitewood and Susan Whitewood,

Fredia Hurdle and Lynn Hurdle, Edwin Hill and
David Palmer, Heather Poehler and Kath Poehler,
Fernando Chang-Muy and Len Rieser, Dawn Plummer
and Diana Polson, Angela Gillem and Gail Lloyd,
Helena Miller and Dara Raspberry, Ron
Gebhardtsbauer and Greg Wright, Marla Cattermole
and Julia Lobur, Maureen Hennessey, and A.W.

and K.W., Minor Children, By and Through Their
Parents and Next Friends, Deb Whitewood and

Civil Action

No. 13-1861-JEJ

Susan Whitewood, plaintiffs Motion Served Pending
v. Approval of ECF
Michael Wolf, in his official capacity as Secretary Registration

of the Pennsylvania Department of Health,
Dan Meuser, Donald Petrille, Jr., in his official

 

 

 

 

 

capacity as Register of Wills and Clerk of Orphans' oS
Court of Bucks County defendants IP | (le (D)
NOV 2 5 2013
PER
HARRISBURG, PA > ".'TY CLERK

 

 

 

MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE

James D. Schneller pro se
Philadelphia Metro Task Force
430 East Lancaster Avenue #E 25

Radnor, PA 19087 ballotnow@aol.com
610-688-9471 fax 610-688-9471
Case 1:13-cv-01861-JEJ Document 77 Filed 11/26/13 Page 2 of 12

James D. Schneller, representing himself, and Philadelphia Metro Task Force, in all
ways possible, move the Court, pursuant to Fed.Rules Civ.Proc.Rule 24(a)(2), for leave
to intervene in this case, stating as follows:

1. Petitioner James D. Schneller, is a resident of 430 East Lancaster Avenue #E25,
Saint Davids, Delaware County.

2. Petitioner Philadelphia Metro Task Force ("association") is a community
organization formed to support and encourage upholding of family values and morality in
government, in the southeastern Pennsylvania region. James Schneller is a co-founder
and principal of the association.

3. Philadelphia Metro Task Force and James D. Schneller ("Citizens") are so situated
that disposition of this case stands to impair and impede Citizens' ability to protect their
interests, and to enjoy constitutionally guaranteed rights.

4. Citizens' evidence and arguments would balance the record and argument in the
case, which is extremely likely to be characterized by a short-term momentum in many
federal courts towards a wholesale adopting of the same-sex doctrine, a momentum
characterized by a voluminous effort, often unfounded, on "issues" including "marriage
equality" and "diversity," which has been infused into daily life in so many ways that few
citizens nor firms can be expected to come to the Court with a clear perception of the
matter, and the resolve to submit it.

5. The overt utilization by homosexual activists, of a concentrated effort in the
judicial branch, causes losses of rights amid circumstances of derogation of intended
balance of power, and perception of said derogation and unwholesome results, by the
public and Citizens.

6. The ability to submit full evidence in this arena is deeply affected at all levels by
pressures, arbitrary limits set by the media, subtle threats and obstructions, and
intimidations, and threat thereof, both implied, and often, real. Citizens claim an ability
to enhance the factual basis, which in all likelihood is not the case with counsel for
defendants.

7. Citizens recently participated heavily in an effort, now intended to be put forth by
plaintiffs as supportive of the plaintiffs' objectives, to empanel municipal human

relations commissions equipped with a new protected class of the "sexual orientation"

 
 

Case 1:13-cv-01861-JEJ Document 77 Filed 11/26/13 Page 3 of 12

present objections. The existing laws under challenge were lawfully promulgated by the
legislature and have existed for years, and the Assembly has for the duration been
available for, and has even passed, legislation amending to comparable statutes and/or
policies.

11. This motion for intervention is timely, whether running from the time Citizens
knew of their interests, or running from Citizens' awareness of limitations to a balanced
record and limitations to furtherance of specific issues and arguments favorable to the
rights that Citizens must endeavor to preserve.

12. Citizens have become increasingly aware that their interests would no longer be
fully protected by existing parties to the suit, that their experience and factual claims
would likely be embellishing to the record in this case, and that recent decisions,
Commonwealth v. Hanes notwithstanding, indicate a trend to omit or un-prioritize health-
, moral-, and traditional family-related considerations in proceedings of this nature. This
as an example, occurred in the Ninth Circuit case in California which resulted in the
declaration that Proposition 8, a definition of marriage passed by popular vote, was
unconstitutional, an appeal from which to the United States Supreme Court was recently
dismissed on narrow, jurisdictional grounds.

13. Prejudice has not occurred to any party from any perceived delay in filing this
motion.

14. Citizens feared prejudice that might occur from Citizens' entry into the case, to
parties during the motion to dismiss stage, that has recently concluded, and this included
prejudice to Citizens as well. Moreso, Citizens had insufficient funds to seek attorney
representation, and believed that entry of a pro se party or parties into the record could
jeopardize or alter what was a significantly rapid phase of pre-trial motions to dismiss.
This prejudice conceivably affected defendants as well, especially because citizens'
stance is more in line with that of defendants as opposed to plaintiffs.

15. Citizens, in what was a researched decision to await the outcome of said phase,
prior to requesting leave to intervene, also acted in the interests of resources and
complexity, because the case might have been narrowed, expanded, or ended, during that
phase.

16. Discovery has not proceeded to any appreciable extent.

17. The alacrity of the proceedings in this case is unexplained and conceivably
excessive.
Case 1:13-cv-01861-JEJ Document 77 Filed 11/26/13 Page 4 of 12

category, in Citizen's region, and thus can assist in a balanced factual presentation of

such claims.

8. Citizens, as a general but worthy indicator of their legal stance in this case, were,
and remain, compelled to oppose the ordinances that established said empaneling, for
reasons including derogation of constitutional rights, impossibility of execution, claims
pursuant to principles of substantive due process, claims for violation of the Religious
Freedom Protection Act, the Human Relations Act, and additional laws, per se claims of
"preemption" by way of certain statutes, improper special legislation, exclusionary
legislation, discriminatory legislation, legislation which frustrates legitimate state
objectives, undue and unreasonable burden on businesses, undue and unreasonable
restrictions on property, irrationally depriving of property interest, divisive, violating
constitutional nights, confiscatory of status quo rights and privileges, fatally prohibitive of
otherwise acceptable activity, expressly mismatching objectives and existing law, official
oppression, conflicting and not sufficiently related to the police power interest that the
ordinances purport to serve, totally excluding of otherwise legitimate activity, failing of
sufficient relationship to public health, safety, morals, welfare, general welfare, health,
cleanliness, environment, convenience, comfort, proper management, care and control of
municipalities, nor the maintenance of peace, good government, safety and welfare of
trade, commerce and manufactures; enabling of reverse viewpoint discrimination,
enabling of reverse first amendment retaliation; infringing on fundamental liberty and
property interests, violating the right to equal protection under the Fourteenth
Amendment; provoking of selective enforcement of local laws and of differential
treatment, furthering of an insufficiently legitimate state interest, abridging of
fundamental rights without reasonably establishing a conflicting fundamental right.

9. Citizens have also filed and pursued complaints with the Pennsylvania Human
Relations Commission ("Commission"), in furtherance of stopping infringement on theirs
and certain classes of citizens' nights by the acts of homosexual activists and their

attempts and successes at fomenting promulgation of said ordinances. These efforts have
brought additional volumes of knowledge on the issues into Citizens possession.

10. The nature of the activism, presently attempting to make stark changes in the
landscape through this case, has had no real proceeding with availability to Citizens and
other Pennsylvanians seeking to participate, nor availability of rights and privileges of
full parties that would have existed, nor any real opportunity to adequately prepare and
 

Case 1:13-cv-01861-JEJ Document 77 Filed 11/26/13 Page 5 of 12

21. Citizens' experience, fact, and legal positions, would in addition to the other
aspects herein evident, shed light on the claim of existence of a class based on sexual
orientation.

22. Citizens claim practical impairment of their ability to protect interests, in light of
imminent preclusive effects of any decision favorable to plaintiffs, including
discrimination on basis of religious beliefs, on basis of moral beliefs, and on basis of
ancestry, and in a related manner, age.

23. Citizens will realistically and in essence be bound by disposition of this case and
by resulting promulgation and litigation likely to result at many levels, certain to affect
liberty, equal treatment, and free speech interests.

24. As are agency' legislative, and executive decisions in this regard, even if the legal
effect were minimal or agreeable, any action of the Court upholding the claims of
plaintiffs would constitute a figurehead, headline, and at the same time, unlegislated,
momentum or quasi-doctrine intended for Pennsylvanians and the nation and world that
a) our Commonwealth government furthers sexual same-partner and other orientations as
favored or nearly ensconced in official policy despite lack of referendum, and b) our
Commonwealth has "approved" "gay marriage." These would cause a great and
measurable infliction upon rights of Citizens, and all citizens so affected, including rights
continually stated in our laws regarding the police power of elected bodies, and pursuant
to the oaths sworn by them.

25. Such government approval of any societal wave or behavior is not the intent of
either constitution, and news travelled well, as did public opinion and the manipulation of
it, at the time of writing of the constitutions or their original form, so that the advent of
mass media, causing an exponentially more abundant ability to manipulate, does not
differ much from a simpler version known to the founders and authors, including the
outright dangers of same and the risk of obfuscation, demagoguery, or tyrrany, which
fomented the inclusion of checks and balances. The lack of the intent of the documents
remain the same.

26. Representatives for the Commonwealth do not enjoy the presumption of adequate
representation at a level equal to that which might have been enjoyed by the
Commonwealth Office of General counsel, even though the latter is claimed to hold
greater expertise. Attorneys for the Commonwealth are a layer removed and unproven in
this less-travelled issue, and a shift in policy nationwide, in general, shows a leaning to
the center whether in the interests of legal efficiency, or aquiesence, especially in some
 

Case 1:13-cv-01861-JEJ Document 77 Filed 11/26/13 Page 6 of 12

18. Other reasons for citizens' decision relate to the developments in the law and
factual basis. Citizens were, of late, increasingly warranted in filing the motion to
intervene, realizing an urgency and realizing a prevalent positioning towards center by
parties supporting traditional values, by way of a series of events that appear to set a tone
for further erosion of family-value tenets, including the failure of the City of Philadelphia
to conform to the 2012 Third Circuit decision affirming an order deciding against city
changes in policy regarding Boy Scout property rented from the city, and a resulting
eviction; the decision of the Board of the Boy Scouts of America to amend the bylaws of
the organization to allow membership to self-avowed homosexuals; the United States
Supreme Court decisions regarding constitutionality of California's Prop 8 statute, and
the withdrawal of the appeal taken to the Third Circuit in the Tobits v. Cozen O'Connor
case, District Court E.D.Pa. No. 11-cv-00045, in which spousal benefits upon death of an
employee were found owed to a partner in a "civil union," rather than the heirs. These
and similar capitulations to the diligence of the "sexual orientation" bloc are increasingly
a function of unrealistically limited defenses, concurrent with tacit or express judicial
approval, maximizing the voluminous, but hastened, position that sexual orientations
existing in conflict with natural realities, cause protected status and basic liberty rights,
this juxtaposed with some courts' refusals to discuss moral and biological realities in
anything but broad, speculative, or condescending terms.

19. Citizens have interests relating to the subject matter of this case exceeding that
sufficient to support intervention of right. These interests are in liberty, religious
expression, freedom from seizure and confiscation, and other basic rights, and regarding
property as well. Reverse discrimination is undeniably threatened, and this amidst a
continual omission of religious and moral freedom, while strumming a false applicability
as related to race, color, or national origin, age, and related classes. This is sufficient to
support intervention of right.

20. Even the circuit courts and the highest court have made unrealistic findings that
pro-family, moral and ethical-based opposition to express government approval of the
orientations" are anti-gay, animus, and other such error. Once-assumed rights
to enjoy most, if not all, national holidays, in a manner based, as most of them are, on
Christian beliefs, are at this time denigrated, and the participants falsely accused, even on
a basis of religious stance, as opposed to what is a common sense stance based on simple
morals and ethics.

oF

"modern

 
Case 1:13-cv-01861-JEJ Document 77 Filed 11/26/13 Page 7 of 12

regions of the nation, including this region in part, with the "popular culture" brand of
lifestyle, infused as it has, in the last two generations.

27. Citizens' interests are different in some ways from those of the governmental
entity-defendant, and those interests will not be represented by the defense or at the least,
stand likely to be insufficiently presented, and such could even affect the record or scope
on any review.

28. The existence of numerous plaintiffs, along with the discontinuance as to parties
Thomas Corbett, Governor of Pennsylvania, and the Register of Wills of Washington
County, et al, warrants additional support for the defense, under the circumstances,
especially the support of a virtuous and imperturbable sort, offered by citizens.

29. Citizens therefore are likely to not share the identical ultimate objective as
defendant or defendants; insuch cases, some prefer that "gay marriage" be a future
possibility, some prefer that civil unions gain some sort of credence, and differing
postures exist regarding recognizing out-of-state "unions" or "marriages." Citizens object
to any effort to declare the statute unconstitutional, and believe the suit is unfounded and
frivolous to a point worthy of costs and fees to the Commonwealth.

30. Citizens thus claim inadequate representation at a level sufficient to meet the test,
under the circumstances.

31. The legal costs of this scenario alone are additional reason for citizens' claims of
taxpayer status. The taxpayer claim extends to the clear possibility of spouysal benefits
always pursued subsequent to threshold advances in states and municipalities by the
homosexual activists.

32. Citizens claim standing pursuant to their being Pennsylvania taxpayers objecting
to what would be exhorbitant expenditures of Commonwealth principal, and towards
arguably illegal and unconstitutional ends, including administrative upheaval requiring
voluminous changes to software, policy, and the justice system as well.

33. Citizens claim standing pursuant to their being United States taxpayers for similar
reasons stemming from their taxes paid as United States taxpayers, for reason, inter alia,
that principal applied towards the ends sought by defendants are a substantial, intended
use for a special interest, nowhere deemed worthy as a protected class, and in direct
derogation of rights to religious freedom, free speech, due process, right to defend and
liberty interests in community health and running organizations and businesses free of
arbitrary or overbroad limitations.
 

Case 1:13-cv-01861-JEJ Document 77 Filed 11/26/13 Page 8 of 12

34. Private attorney general status is expressly and urgently warranted for reasons
including the overt derogation to religious rights and rights to healthy community not
favoring to one factor or class over others, and numerous statutes directing such, amidst
an effort and enterprise undeniably in existence towards those ends, and where, first and
foremost, the elected Attorney General is refusing to uphold nor defend the law.

35. Pennsylvania's Human Relations Act encourages intervention where such would
bring imminent and ongoing discrimination to an end.

36. Citizens for the above reasons meet the necessity of direct, substantial, and legally
protectable interests in this case, that are belonging to, successively positioned, and
owned by applicant.

37. Citizen's claims are not generalized, speculative, nor remote, and are not common
to the populace as a whole.

Conclusion

38. Citizens hold "such a personal stake in the outcome of the controversy as to assure
that concrete adverseness which sharpens the presentation of issues." California Bankers
Assn. v. Schultz, 416 U.S. 21 (1974); citing Baker v. Carr, 369 U.S. 186 (1971)

WHEREFORE, movants respectfully request the Court's grant of this prayer for
intervention, and an order directing that Citizens are intervenors in this case.

_s/ ane i dh Md Date: November 21, 2013

; D. Schneller pro se
` itladelphia Metro Task Force
 

Case 1:13-cv-01861-JEJ Document 77 Filed 11/26/13 Page 9 of 12

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE MIDDLE
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

Deb Whitewood and Susan Whitewood,

Fredia Hurdle and Lynn Hurdle, Edwin Hill and . ;
David Palmer, Heather Poehler and Kath Poehler, Civil Action
Fernando Chang-Muy and Len Rieser, Dawn Plummer

and Diana Polson, Angela Gillem and Gail Lloyd,

et al, plaintiffs

Vy. No. 13-1861-JEJ

Michael Wolf, in his official capacity as Secretary
of the Pennsylvania Department of Health,

Dan Meuser, Donald Petrille, Jr., in his official Motion Served Pending

capacity as Register of Wills and Clerk of Orphans' Approval of ECF

Court of Bucks County defendants Registration
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I, James Schneller, hereby certify that I served a true and correct copy of the
motion to intervene, upon the parties, listed as follows, and the judge, by e-mail, this day.
I certify that I will immediately file this motion and certificate of service via ECF as soon
as I am approved as a user/member for that service, or by US Mail with the Clerk if
denied membership of ECF.

Honorable John E. Jones, III

USS. District Court M.D. Penna.

Ronald Reagan Federal Bldg. & U.S. Courthouse
228 Walnut Street

Harrisburg, PA 17101
Case 1:13-cv-01861-JEJ Document 77 Filed 11/26/13 Page 10 of 12

Robert J Grimm

Thomas J Jezewski

Swartz Campbell, LLC

4750 U.S. Steel Tower

600 Grant Street

Pittsburgh, PA 15219
412-456-5416
rgrimm@swartzcampbell.com
tjezewski@swartzcampbell.com

Nathan D. Fox

Begley Carlin & Mandio LLP
680 Middletown Blvd.
Langhorne, PA 19047
215.750.0110
nfox@begleycarlin.com

William H. Lamb

Joel L. Frank

Lamb McErlane P.C.

24 East Market Street

P.O. Box 565

West Chester, PA 19381-0565
(610) 430-8000
jfrank@lambmcerlane.com

James D. Esseks

American Civil Liberties Union Foundation
125 Broad Street

18th Floor

New York, NY 10004

212-549-2627

Jesseks@aclu. org

John S. Stapleton
