Case 1:08-cr-00110-TFH Document 17

Filed 10/15/08 Page 1 of 8

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
v.
JONATHAN WRIGHT,
Defendant.

:
:
:
:
:
:

CRIMINAL NO. 08-110-04 (TFH)

GOVERNMENT’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR MODIFICATION OF PRE-TRIAL DETENTION ORDER

The United States of America, by and through its Attorney, the United States Attorney for
the District of Columbia, respectfully opposes defendant’s Motion for Modification of Pre-Trial
Detention Order. The record shows that no condition nor combination of conditions for the
defendant’s release can reasonably assure the safety of the community. Thus, the United States asks
the Court to continue to hold the defendant without bail pending trial. In support the United States
says as follows:
Background
In the course of an investigation into a conspiracy to distribute heroin and phencyclidine
(PCP) in the District of Columbia involving Lonnell Glover and 26 co-conspirators, the government
obtained authority from the Honorable Rosemary M. Collyer of this court to monitor conversations
over Glover’s cellular telephone and in and around his pick up truck. Those conversations disclosed
that it was Glover’s intention to arrange for his west coast PCP supplier to manufacture the drug in
the vicinity of the District of Columbia. Glover intended to select the site and provide the necessary

Case 1:08-cr-00110-TFH Document 17

Filed 10/15/08 Page 2 of 8

precursor chemicals to accomplish this. Intercepted conversations indicate that Glover intended to
dedicate $300,000 to this plan. When this plan could not be realized because of the west coast
supplier’s reluctance, Glover shifted his attention to a plan to invest in the distribution of cocaine.
To this end, Glover contacted an old acquaintance and drug dealer, Robert Robbins, who was
residing in Alabama. Robbins introduced Glover to the defendant because Wright had a cocaine
connection in the Bahamas, an individual named “Foot” or “Big Foot,”who would be willing to sell
large quantities of cocaine. Defendant recruited a courier who would carry to the Bahamas the
money necessary to fund the cocaine purchase. Over the course of the development of this plan there
were numerous telephone calls and several face-to-face meetings involving defendant.
In May of 2007, defendant traveled from Florida in a rented van to the District of Maryland
where he met with Glover at his home at 4908 Brentley Road in Temple Hills, Maryland. Defendant
and Glover then traveled to a hardware store where they obtained the supplies necessary to construct
a place in defendant’s vehicle to secrete the funds to support their cocaine scheme, $175,000 in cash.
Defendant then traveled the following day with the money in the rented van to his home in Florida.
Shortly thereafter Glover flew to Florida to meet with defendant. In addition, Glover arranged for
another co-conspirator to rent a passenger van in the DC area and drive it to Florida to transport the
cocaine back to the District of Columbia area. While in Florida, Glover and defendant met with the
courier and purchased a microwave oven. Defendant then secreted the $175,000 in the innards of
the microwave. The courier recruited by defendant agreed to transport the microwave to the
Bahamas via commercial aircraft for $3,000, while Glover and Wright were to board another flight

2

Case 1:08-cr-00110-TFH Document 17

Filed 10/15/08 Page 3 of 8

to the Bahamas. Unbeknownst to the co-conspirators at the time Glover and defendant departed for
the Bahamas, the courier had earlier been the subject of a Customs search and the $175,000 hidden
in the microwave had been seized and the courier was arrested. When Glover returned to the United
States there were numerous intercepted conversations with defendant and other co-conspirators in
which he discussed the ill-fated attempt to import cocaine.
On June 12, 2007, a federal grand jury indicted the Glover and twenty-four other individuals,
in two indictments, for distributing PCP and heroin supplied to them by Glover, Velma Williams and
Suggs. Subsequently, on April 17, 2008, defendant, Lonnell Glover, Cornell Glover and Robert
Robbins were indicted in the instant matter. Pursuant to Rule 9 of the Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure, bench warrants were issued for the arrest of each of the defendants named in this
Indictment, save Messrs. Lonnell and Cornell Glover, who were already in custody having been
indicted in the heroin and PCP conspiracy. Defendant was arrested in Florida on May 15, 2008, and
removed to the District of Columbia to answer to the Indictment in this matter. On June 18, 2008,
defendant was arraigned and on June 24, 2008, Magistrate Judge Facciola held a hearing on the
government’s motion to detain defendant without bond pending trial in this matter. Magistrate Judge
Facciola ordered defendant held without bond and filed a Memorandum Opinion setting out his
reasons for that decision.
Argument
This Court should uphold Magistrate Judge Facciola’s decision to hold the defendant without
bond pending trial in this matter. It is worthwhile recalling Congress’ intent in 1984 when it enacted
the current version of the Bail Reform Act:
3

Case 1:08-cr-00110-TFH Document 17

Filed 10/15/08 Page 4 of 8

Many of the changes in the Bail Reform Act reflect the . . . determination that Federal bail laws must . . . give the courts adequate authority
to make release decisions that give appropriate recognition to the
danger a person may pose to others if released. . . . The constraints
of the Bail Reform Act fail to grant the Courts the authority to impose
conditions of release geared toward assuring community safety, or the
authority to deny release to those defendants who pose an especially
grave risk to the safety of the community. . . . This broad base of
support for giving judges the authority to weigh risks to community
safety in pretrial release decisions is a reflection of the deep public
concern, which the Committee shares, about the growing problem
of crimes committed by persons on release.
See S.Rep. No. 225, 98th Cong., 2d Sess. 307, reprinted in 1984 U.S.Code Cong. & Ad.News 3182,
3486-3487. (Emphasis added.)1
1

The Court must always consider whether defendant’s release is a danger to the community.
This point is made throughout the Bail Reform Act. Section 3142(e), which authorizes detention
without bail pending trial, which reads:
If, after a hearing pursuant to the provisions of subsection (f) of this section, the
judicial officer finds that no condition or combination of conditions will reasonably
assure the appearance of the person as required and the safety of any other person
and the community, such judicial officer shall order the detention of the person
before trial.
Emphasis added. Similarly, § 3142(f) reads:
The judicial officer shall hold a hearing to determine whether any condition of
combination of conditions set forth in subsection (c) of this section will reasonably
assure the appearance of such person and the safety of any other person and the
community –
(1) upon motion of the attorney for the Government, in a case that involves,
(C) an offense for which a maximum term of imprisonment
of ten years or more is prescribed in the Controlled Substances Act
(21 United States Code, § 801 et seq.) . . .
Emphasis added. This point is again made in § 3142(g), Factors to be considered, which states:
The judicial officer shall, in determining whether there are conditions of release that
will reasonably assure the appearance of the person as required and the safety of any
other person and the community, take into account the available information
concerning –
(1) The nature and circumstances of the offense charged, including whether
the offense is a crime of violence or involves a narcotic drug;
(2) the weight of the evidence against the person;
(3) the history and characteristics of the person . . .
4

Case 1:08-cr-00110-TFH Document 17

Filed 10/15/08 Page 5 of 8

There are no conditions of release that will ensure that defendant will not pose a danger to
the community if released. This is based first upon the presumption to that effect written into the
Bail Reform Act. 18 United States Code, § 3142(e) (“Subject to rebuttal by the person, it shall be
presumed that no condition or combination of conditions of release will reasonably assure the . . .
safety of the community if the judicial officer finds that there is probable cause to believe that the
person committed an offense for which a maximum term of imprisonment of ten years or more is
prescribed in the Controlled Substances Act.”). This presumption, triggered by indictment, is
overwhelmingly reinforced by the facts of this case.
The defendant is in the drug trade, and he is not a minor player. He suggests that his
activities in this matter reflect that this was a single incident and did not reflect an ongoing
relationship between defendant and Glover. To the contrary, the very nature of the scheme reflects
that this was indeed a “future oriented business relationship” despite defendant’s assertion to the
contrary. The plan developed over almost two months. Defendant provided Glover with the cocaine
dealer in the Bahamas, with a courier, and even transported the money for the drug deal from
Maryland to Florida. Glover told one of his co-conspirators that he planned to make 80 million
dollars by the end of the year from cocaine sales through defendant. In another conversation between
Glover and defendant, Glover said he could sell 1,000 kilograms of cocaine a moth, including 400
to 500 kilograms of cocaine in the Dc area alone. Defendant told Glover that his cocaine suppliers
do not like selling small amounts. Further, Wright was clearly an active participant in this scheme

(4) the nature and seriousness of the danger to any person or the
community that would be posed by the person’s release. . . .
(Emphasis added.)
5

Case 1:08-cr-00110-TFH Document 17

Filed 10/15/08 Page 6 of 8

and knew that the funds involved were intended for drug purchase which explains why he traveled
to this area in May, constructed a hiding place in his vehicle and traveled back to Florida with the
funds. Further, Wright was aware of the presence of and the need for the “courier” who was to travel
back to this area with the drugs. There would be no need for such a courier in a “money laundering
scheme. Finally, that this was indeed a “future oriented business relationship” is demonstrated by
the quantity of drugs involved. The $175,000 seized in this matter suggests that at conservative
estimate a minimum of 15 kilograms of cocaine were involved in this deal. Not a typical quantity
for international smuggling among conspirators with an ongoing relationship but rather an amount
that suggests that buyer was testing the supplier’s ability to produce substantial quantities of a quality
product and the supplier is testing the ability of the buyer to produce the funds and promptly
distribute the product. This suggests an intention to establish an ongoing relationship, an intention
supported by Glover’s intercepted conversations.
In his Motion for Modification defendant also insinuates that the Indictment herein is
“sparse,” in that it alleges the conspiracy “without so much as a single overt act.” See United States
v. Lam Kwong Wah, 924 F.2d 298, 302-303 (D.C. Cir. 1991); United States v. Pumphrey, 831 F.2d
307, 308-309, 265 U.S. App. D.C. 306, 307-308 (D.C. Cir. 1987). These cases hold that the offense
of violating 21 U.S.C. § 846, by conspiring to violate federal narcotics laws, does not include an
element of commission of an overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy. Although defendant later
references having listened to “Every single one of those conversations,” he does not disclose that
from the day of his arraignment defendant has had a copy of all of the more that 1800 hours of
intercepted conversation in this case, the pleadings in support of the government’s requests for
authority to monitor and a “filter” computer disc containing only those conversations involving
6

Case 1:08-cr-00110-TFH Document 17

Filed 10/15/08 Page 7 of 8

defendant. We are confident that in light of the information thus far supplied, defendant would have
little hope of succeeding in a request for a Bill of Particulars.
These facts embody the danger that defendant’s release poses. As the legislative history of
the 1984 Bail Reform Act amendments shows:
[T]he language referring to the safety of the community refers to the
danger that the defendant might engage in criminal activity to the
detriment of the community. The committee intends that the concern
about safety be given a broader construction than merely danger of
harm involving violence. . . . The Committee also emphasizes that
the risk that a defendant will continue to engage in drug trafficking
constitutes a danger to the “safety of any other person or the
community.
S.Rep. No. 225, supra, at 3195-3196.
The defendant may argue that his community ties here or in Florida, overcome the
presumption that he should be held pending trial. Again, the framers of the 1984 Bail Reform Act
thought differently. “The Committee also notes with respect to the fact of community ties that it is
aware of the growing evidence that the presence of this factor does not necessarily reflect a
likelihood of appearance, and has no correlation with the question of the safety of the community.”
S.Rep. No. 225, supra, 3207. Nor is it clear why community ties, which clearly were not enough to
keep the defendant from breaking the law previously, will suddenly keep him on the straight and
narrow. In summary, if the defendant were released, it would constitute a clear danger to the
community.

7

Case 1:08-cr-00110-TFH Document 17

Filed 10/15/08 Page 8 of 8

WHEREFORE, the United States respectfully requests that the Order of the Magistrate
Judge denying defendant release be affirmed and the defendant ordered held without bond pending
trial.
Respectfully submitted,
JEFFREY A. TAYLOR
UNITED STATES ATTORNEY

ANTHONY SCARPELLI
Assistant United States Attorney

WILLIAM J. O’MALLEY, JR.
Assistant United States Attorney

JOHN K. HAN
Assistant United States Attorney

Certificate of Service
I HEREBY certify that I have caused a copy of the foregoing government’s response to
defendant Wright’s Motion for Modification of Pre-Trial Detention Order and proposed Order to be
served by ECF filing upon all counsel listed below; this 15th day of October, 2008.

WILLIAM J. O’MALLEY, JR.
Assistant United States Attorney
D.C. Bar No. 166-991
555 Fourth Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20001
(202) 305-1749
8

