Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 1 of 13

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
PETER F. PAUL,

|
|
Plaintiff,
|
|
v.
| Civil Action No. 1:07-cv-00279-RCL
| Honorable Royce C. Lamberth
JUDICIAL WATCH, INC., ET AL.
|
Defendants.
|
_____________________________________ |

MEMORANDUM OF POINTS AND AUTHORITIES IN OPPOSITION TO
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO DISQUALIFY LARRY KLAYMAN AS COUNSEL
Plaintiff, Peter Paul by the undersigned counsel and pursuant to D.C. Rules of
Professional Conduct 1.6, 1.7, 1.9 and 3.7, hereby submits the following Memorandum of
Points and Authorities in Opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Disqualify Larry E.
Klayman and the Klayman Law Firm, P.C. (“Mr. Klayman”) as Counsel for Plaintiff
Peter Paul (“Paul”).

STATEMENT OF FACTS
Plaintiff, Paul was a former client of Judicial Watch who was being criminally
prosecuted for certain alleged stock and bank fraud. Judicial Watch began to assist in the
defense of Paul by funding the defense of Paul and contracting criminal defense lawyers.
However, the actions that led to Paul’s filing this lawsuit against Judicial Watch occurred
after Mr. Klayman left the employment of Judicial Watch. A consistent theme that will
recur in the Defendants’ Motion to Disqualify Mr. Klayman is the lack of any privileged
information and specific information gained by Mr. Klayman’s prior involvement with
Defendants as it relates to Paul’s case. It should be noted that the representation of Paul

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 2 of 13

was carried out by another criminal defense law firm that was contracted and paid for by
Judicial Watch to represent Paul and the representation of Paul was not carried out by Mr.
Klayman or Judicial Watch. The contract of representation speaks for itself and Paul does
not need the testimony of Mr. Klayman in this regard.( See Paul’s Affidavit).
During Mr. Klayman’s tenure at Judicial Watch, Mr. Klayman was not privity to
any privileged information or and specific information gained by Mr. Klayman’s prior
involvement with Judicial Watch as it relates to Paul’s case. In fact, the Defendants’
Motion to Disqualify Mr. Klayman does not specify with any detail what specific facts,
privileged or confidential information was gained by Mr. Klayman during Mr. Klayman’s
involvement with Judicial Watch relating to the Paul matter. Furthermore, Paul is not in
possession of any confidential information of Judicial Watch or the Defendants and at no
time has Mr. Klayman provided to Paul or conveyed to Paul any confidential or
privileged information that may belong to Judicial Watch or the Defendants. (See Paul’s
Affidavit)
This action is strictly against the Defendants and not Mr. Klayman. (See Paul’s
Affidavit). There is no reference to Mr. Klayman because this matter is clearly against the
Defendants and not Mr. Klayman. (See Paul’s Affidavit).

LEGAL ARGUMENT
I. STANDARD OF REVIEW
This Court recognizes that disqualification of counsel is appropriate “when [1] the
conduct is in violation of the rules of professional conduct to the point of undermining
the court’s confidence in the vigor of counsel’s representation of his client or [2] where
the attorney is in a position to use confidential information concerning his client’s

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 3 of 13

opponent gained from a prior representation.” Steinbuch v. Cutler, 463 F. Supp. 2d 4, 7-8
(D.D.C. 2006) (citing Koller v. Richardson-Merrell Inc., 237 U.S. App. D.C. 333, 737
F.2d 1038 (D.C. Cir. 1984), vacated on other grounds, 472 U.S. 424 (1985)). See also
Chambers v. NASCO, Inc., 501 U.S. 32, 43-46, 111 S. Ct. 2123 (1991) (stating that “a
federal court has the power to control admission to its bar and to discipline attorneys who
appear before it”); Cauderlier v. Zambrana, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 85969, (D.D.C. Oct.
6, 2006); Pigford v. Veneman, 355 F. Supp. 2d 148, 166-167 (D.D.C. 2005) (citing
Pigford v. Veneman, 217 F. Supp. 2d 95, 99-100 (D.D.C. 2002).

II. RULE 1.7 DOES NOT PROHIBIT MR. KLAYMAN FROM REPRESENTING
PAUL BECAUSE THERE EXISTS NO ADVANCEMENT OF ADVERSE
POSITIONS
Rule 1.7 of the Rules of Professional Conduct “is intended to provide notice of
circumstances that may constitute a conflict of interest.” Rule 1.7, Comment [1]. In
certain limited circumstances, a lawyer may never represent a client where a direct
conflict of interest exists. Those limited circumstances are set out in Rule 1.7(a), which
read: “A lawyer shall not advance two or more adverse positions in the same matter.”
1. Rule 1.7 does not Prohibit Mr. Klayman from Representing Paul and it is not
Necessary for Mr. Klayman to Advance Contradictory Positions in this Case
Mr. Klayman has not and does not need to advance a contradictory position in this
matter in order to properly represent Paul. The parties stipulate that a contract between
Paul and Judicial Watch exists. The contract speaks for itself (See Paul’s Affidavit) and
its meaning and intent are not issues of litigation in this matter as much as the Defendants
would like it to be, in order to support their meritless arguments regarding the
disqualification of Mr. Klayman.

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 4 of 13

2. Paul and Mr. Klayman are not adverse in this litigation
The breach of fiduciary relationship count in this action pertains to the individual
actions of the Defendants, not Mr. Klayman. (See Paul’s Affidavit). This cause of action
is personal in nature and the Defendants can not be held liable for a breach of fiduciary
relationship by Mr. Klayman. An action such as a breach of a fiduciary duty is personal
in nature. Paul has not alleged that Mr. Klayman breached his fiduciary relationship, but
that the Defendants breached the fiduciary relationship; thus Mr. Klayman actions are not
at issue in this matter as far as a breach of fiduciary relationship is concerned, but the
Defendants actions are at issue in this matter.

3. Mr. Klayman may competently and diligently represent himself and Paul without
taking contradictory positions
An issue of major concern that is inescapable in this matter is Defendants’
personal vendetta against Mr. Klayman. Defendants are keenly aware that no one but Mr.
Klayman will step up and represent Paul to redress the wrongs that the Defendants have
caused Paul. If they are able to successfully disqualify Mr. Klayman from the
representation of Paul, the Defendants will in essence have defeated Paul’s entire claim
because of Paul’s has no resources to represent himself or obtain substitute counsel in this
matter.
Clearly, the actions and evidence that will be presented at trial in this matter will
pertain to the Defendants’ actions that have led to the causes of action raised in this
matter. If it is the position of the Defendants that it was the actions of Mr. Klayman that
caused the wrong upon Paul, then they are free to raise those claims as a defense, and
present evidence supporting those claims. However, fabricating a conflict in order

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 5 of 13

support the disqualification of Mr. Klayman is improper. Moreover, a defense of that
nature would be frivolous and presented only for the purpose of trying to make Mr.
Klayman a witness in this matter.

4. Mr. Klayman is capable of effective cross-examination without impeaching
himself
Defendants take the position that Mr. Klayman cannot effectively represent Paul
without impeaching himself. According to the Defendants, Mr. Klayman cannot fulfill
this obligation when simultaneously defending his actions and attempting to inculpate the
organization he was acting for at that time. As the Court has recognized, an attorney
cannot zealously impeach an opposing party witness, if that witness is a former client to
whom the attorney owes a duty of confidentiality. United States v. Davis, 780 F. Supp. 21
(D. D.C. 1991) (stating that an attorney should not be inhibited because of a potential
breach of confidentially toward a former client).
Defendants fail to recognize that Mr. Klayman was not associated with Judicial
Watch at the time of the occurrence of the actions for which Paul has sued Defendants.
Moreover, United States v. Davis requires Mr. Klayman to owe a duty of confidentiality
to the Defendants. Mr. Klayman is not in possession of any confidential information
belonging to the Defendants as it relates to the matters pled by Paul in this case. If Mr.
Klayman has no confidential information of the Defendants, then Mr. Klayman does not
have a duty of confidentially to the Defendants as it pertains to Paul’s case. As it has been
consistently stated, Defendants are unable and incapable of expressing what confidential
information Mr. Klayman is in possession of belonging to the Defendants as it relates to
Paul’s case. This is a constant and obvious theme. After deciphering the Defendants’

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 6 of 13

twenty three (23) page memorandum of points filed in support of their Motion to
Disqualify Mr. Klayman, not one single piece of confidential information that belongs to
Defendants that Mr. Klayman is in possession of as it relates to Paul is stated, shown or
expressed.
As stated in D.C. Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.9 Comment [3],
emphasis added,

in the case of an organizational client, general knowledge
of the client’s policies and practices ordinarily will not
preclude a subsequent representation; on the other hand,
knowledge of specific facts gained at a prior representation
that are relevant to the matter in question, ordinarily will
preclude such a representation.
The Defendants allegations of confidential information and privilege that Mr.
Klayman is allegedly in possession of are artfully stated in the Defendants’ Motion to
Disqualify Mr. Klayman as general and conclusory statements without an iota of specific
facts as required by Rule 1.9.
III. RULE 1.9 OF THE RULES OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT DOES NOT
PROHIBIT MR. KLAYMAN’S REPRESENTATION OF PAUL IN THIS
LITIGATION BECAUSE THE SUBJECT MATTER IS SUBSTANTIALLY
RELATED TO MR. KLAYMAN’S ACTIVITIES AS GENERAL COUNSEL FOR
JUDICIAL WATCH
Rule 1.9 of the D.C. Rules of Professional Conduct prohibits a lawyer from
representing “another person in the same or a substantially related matter in which that
person’s interests are materially adverse to the interests of the former client unless the
former client gives informed consent.” D.C. Bar Appx. A, Rule 1.9. “When a lawyer has
been directly involved in a specific transaction, subsequent representation of other clients
with materially adverse interests clearly is prohibited.” D.C. Bar Appx. A, Rule 1.9,

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 7 of 13

Comment [2]. Comment [3] to Rule 1.9 is particularly relevant to these circumstances as
it states that if a lawyer has knowledge of specific facts that were obtained in the prior
representation, which are now relevant to the current litigation, the lawyer may not
represent an adverse party. Comment [3] reads, in relevant part:
in the case of an organizational client, general
knowledge of the client’s policies and practices
ordinarily will not preclude a subsequent
representation; on the other hand, knowledge of specific
facts gained at a prior representation that are relevant
to the matter in question, ordinarily will preclude such
a representation

As general counsel and chairman of Judicial Watch, Mr. Klayman was not privity
to any specific facts of privileged information or specific information gained by Mr.
Klayman’s prior involvement with Judicial Watch as it relates to Paul’s case. The
Defendants’ Motion to Disqualify Mr. Klayman does not specify with any details what
specific facts, privilege or confidential information was gained by Mr. Klayman during
Mr. Klayman’s involvement with Judicial Watch relating to the Paul matter. After
deciphering a comprehensive and convoluted memorandum of points prepared by the
Defendants, not a single shred of specific privileged information is shown. The reason for
this is that there are no specific facts or specific confidential information that Mr.
Klayman is in possession of as it relates to Paul’s case that belongs to Defendants.
Furthermore, to require Mr. Klayman to obtain any consent from Defendants is
not only not required, but absurd. This matter is not substantially similar to any matter
that Judicial Watch handled for Paul when Mr. Klayman was an employee or general
counsel of Judicial Watch. This involves Defendants’ improper actions in this matter as

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 8 of 13

alleged by Paul which occurred subsequent to Mr. Klayman’s departure from Judicial
Watch. (See Paul’s Affidavit).
Mr. Klayman has not violated Rule 1.9 of the D.C. Rules of Professional Conduct.
Rule 1.9 of the D.C. Rules of Professional Conduct requires that:
A lawyer, who has formerly represented a client in a
matter, shall not thereafter represent another person in the
same or substantially related matter in which that persons
interests are materially adverse to the interests of the
former client, unless the former client consents after
consultation.
At no time did Mr. Klayman represent Judicial Watch in any matters regarding
Paul’s case. Moreover, Mr. Klayman did not receive any information from Judicial
Watch that would be considered privileged information regarding the Paul matters.
Defendants fail to advise this Court that they have vindictively filed a bar
complaint against Mr. Klayman on these same issues which complaint is pending before
D.C. Bar Counsel. The Complaint will be submitted under seal along with Mr.
Klayman’s response as a supplement to this opposition.

IV. UNDER RULE 1.6 OF THE RULES OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT, MR.
KLAYMAN CANNOT ETHICALLY REPRESENT PAUL WITHOUT
DISCLOSING CONFIDENCES AND SECRETS HE IS BOUND TO MAINTAIN
Defendants’ argument under Rule 1.6 only brings too light the Defendants
complete misunderstanding of the D.C. Rules of Ethics as they apply to this matter and
the faulty premise which they base their arguments upon. Defendants’ contend in their
Motion to Disqualify Mr. Klayman that of particular interest in this matter was Mr.
Klayman’s exposure to confidential information concerning Judicial Watch’s provision
of legal services to Paul. A fundamental principal of the lawyer-client relationship is that

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 9 of 13

the lawyer will hold inviolate that client’s confidences and secrets. This obligation is
imposed on the Bar by Rule 1.6 of the Rules of Professional Conduct, which provides
that, except when specifically permitted under the Rule, “a lawyer shall not knowingly
reveal a confidence or secret of the client”. As the Rule further explains, “confidence”
refers to information protected by the attorney-client privilege under applicable law, and
“secret” refers to other information gained in the professional relationship that the client
has requested be held inviolate, or the disclosure of which would be embarrassing, or
would likely be detrimental to the client. D.C. Bar Appx. A, Rule 1.6(b). This is exactly
what Mr. Klayman is doing by representing Paul. Mr. Klayman is preserving the
attorney-client privilege with Paul. Mr. Klayman has not revealed any of Paul’s
information. Clearly, Defendants can not possibly take the position that they are or were
the client of Mr. Klayman for purpose of Rule 1.6 and not Paul. Moreover, as repeated
throughout this opposition Mr. Klayman is not in possession or has knowledge of any
specific facts of privileged information that belong to Defendants.
The Defendants’ Motion to Disqualify Mr. Klayman does not specify with any
details what specific facts, privileged or confidential information was gained by Mr.
Klayman during Mr. Klayman’s involvement with Judicial Watch relating to the Paul
matter.

V. D.C. RULE OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 3.7 PROHIBITS MR.
KLAYMAN’S REPRESENTATION OF PAUL BECAUSE HE IS A FACT
WITNESS
Rule 3.7 provides that: “A lawyer shall not act as advocate at a trial in which the
lawyer is likely to be a necessary witness.” Therefore, under Rule 3.7, Defendants’ argue
that Mr. Klayman cannot simultaneously act as a necessary fact witness and as an

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 10 of 13

advocate for Paul. As much as the Defendants desire to have the Court consider Mr.
Klayman a fact witness in this matter, Mr. Klayman is not a fact witness in this matter.
(See Mr. Klayman’s Affidavit). Moreover, Paul has the option of waiving this issue.
Defendants’ attempt to characterize Mr. Klayman as a fact witness is consistent
with their mode of operation against Mr. Klayman. Defendants are aware that no one but
Mr. Klayman will step up to redress the wrong that the Defendants have caused Paul. If
the Defendants are able to successfully disqualify Mr. Klayman from representation of
Paul, they will in essence have defeated Paul’s entire claim because of Paul has no
resources to represent himself or obtain substitute counsel in this matter.
Even though Mr. Klayman on behalf of Judicial Watch executed the agreement
with Paul, Mr. Klayman is not in possession of any specific information or facts that
would be confidential belonging to Defendants as it relates to Paul’s case. Moreover,
Paul has not received or been provided any confidential information belonging to the
Defendants by Mr. Klayman. (See Paul’s Affidavit).

VI. MR. KLAYMAN’S REPRESENTATION OF PAUL IS NOT CAUSING
IMMINENT AND ACTUAL HARM TO JUDICIAL WATCH AND THE
INTEGRITY OF ATTORNEY ETHICS
The Defendants’ claim that the relative positions of Judicial Watch, Paul and Mr.
Klayman present a unique set of circumstances that require this Court to apply a
heightened review. See Zachair, Ltd. v. Driggs, 965 F. Supp. 741, 754 (D. Md. 1997)
(recognizing that dual representation in circumstances similar to this action greatly
intensifies the potential that “confidential information will be disclosed in the ex parte

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 11 of 13

setting”), however, the Court in Zachair, Ltd. was dealing with dual representation. This
matter does not involve dual representation.
This allegation in the Defendants’ Motion to Disqualify Mr. Klayman is nothing
more than a dramatic plea to the Court for the granting of their motion. This artfully
drafted plea is filled with hot air and no substance. Defendants fail to state what specific
harm will be caused to them by Mr. Klayman’s representation of Paul. Defendants fail to
state how this representation underscores the Court’s confidence. Even though, the
Defendants state that Mr. Klayman’s representation of Paul is a clear and direct conflict,
the Defendant fail to state what is the conflict. Finally, the Defendants fail to state what
specific facts and information are privileged or confidential information gained by Mr.
Klayman during Mr. Klayman’s involvement with Judicial Watch relating to this case.

VII. PAUL WILL SUFFER PREJUDICE AS A RESULT OF MR. KLAYMAN’S
DISQUALIFICATION
Clearly, Paul will suffer prejudice if Mr. Klayman is disqualified. (See Paul’s
affidavit). The Defendants have a history of over aggressively prosecuting and defending
lawsuits at the expense of the opposing party. This meritless motion is one example of
over lawyering. If the Defendants are able to successfully disqualify Mr. Klayman from
the representation of Paul, they will in essence have defeated Paul’s entire claim because
of Paul has no resources to represent himself or obtain substitute counsel in this matter.
(See Paul’s Affidavit)

CONCLUSION

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 12 of 13

WHEREFORE, for all of the forgoing reasons, Defendants Judicial Watch, Inc.
and Paul J. Orfanedes respectfully request that the Motion to Disqualify Larry E.
Klayman and the Klayman Law Firm, P.C. as counsel for Plaintiff Peter Paul should be
DENIED and this Court should award ay other relief that the Court deems appropriate.
The Plaintiff respectfully requests oral argument.

Respectfully submitted,

Dated: June 19, 2008

By: /s/Larry Klayman__
Larry Klayman, Esq.
D.C. Bar No.: 334581
3415 SW 24th Street
Miami, FL 33145
Tel: 305-447-1091
Fax: 305-447-1548

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 13 of 13

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 19th day of June 2008, a true copy of the
foregoing Motion was served via electronic means to:

Richard W. Driscoll, Esquire
Driscoll & Seltzer, PLLC
600 Cameron Street
Alexandria, VA 22314

By: s/Larry Klayman
Larry Klayman, Esq.
D.C. Bar No.: 334581
3415 SW 24th Street
Miami, FL 33145
Tel: 305-447-1091
Fax: 305-447-1548

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29-2

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 1 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29-2

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 2 of 3

Case 1:07-cv-00279-RCL

Document 29-2

Filed 06/19/2008

Page 3 of 3

