Case 1:12-cv-10779-RWZ Document 70 Filed 02/10/14 Page 1 of 17

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS

 

 

)
IN RE EQUITY RESIDENTIAL AMENITY FEE ) Case No. 1:12-cv-10779-RWZ,

LITIGATION )
)

)

This Document Relates to: )
All Actions )
)

 

MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION TO
DEFENDANT'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND
IN SUPPORT OF PLAINTIFFS' CROSS-MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
This matter involves a statute that is plain and unambiguous on its face, and has just as

plainly been violated. The Security Deposit Law, Chapter 186 0x00A715B of the Massachusetts
General Laws ("The Act"), provides an exclusive and specific list of fees that a landlord may
charge a residential tenant in advance of his or her tenancy.' Because it is undisputed that Equity
Residential Management, LLC ("ERM" or "Defendant") charged the Plaintiffs and other class

members several "fees" (not enumerated in the Act as permissible fees) as a condition to leasing

their apartments, ERM has violated the Act, and therefore, has also violated Mass. Gen. L. c.

 

' Specifically, Mass. Gen. L. c. 186 0x00A715B(1) (b) states: "At or prior to the commencement of any tenancy, no lessor
may require a tenant or prospective tenant to pay any amount in excess of the following:

(i) rent for the first full month of occupancy; and,
(ii) rent for the last full month of occupancy calculated at the same rate as the first month; and,

(iii) a security deposit equal to the first month's rent provided that such security deposit is deposited as required by
subsection (3) and that the tenant is given the statement of condition as required by subsection (2); and,

(iv) the purchase and installation cost for a key and lock."

 

I
i
i
i
i
|
i
!
|
 

 

Case 1:12-cv-10779-RWZ Document 70 Filed 02/10/14 Page 2 of 17

93A 0x00A70x00A7 2 and 9.* Further, in a case of first impression, a judge in this District, the Honorable
William Young, has already ruled in a nearly identical situation, that a landlord's conduct in
charging an "amenity fee," akin to ERM's conduct at issue here, is violative of the Act. Hermida
v. Archstone, 826 F. Supp. 2d 380, 381 (D. Mass. 2011).

FACTS

Plaintiffs Brian Perry and Kim Perry (the "Perrys") lived in the Property known as Equity
Longview Place, located at 70 Hope Avenue, Waltham, Massachusetts, from approximately
December 23, 2011 through approximately the end of June 2012. As a condition of their lease
application, the Perrys were required to pay a non-refundable application fee of $100, which they
paid in or around mid-December 2011. In order to enter into their lease with ERM, the Perrys
were required to pay a $350 Move-in Fee, later reduced to $99, which they paid in or around late
December 2011. In addition, the Perrys paid a non-refundable pet fee in the sum of $30 per
month during their tenancy at Longview Place.

Plaintiff Cheryl Miller ("Miller") lived at 10 Emerson Place, Apt. 18B, from
approximately May 1, 2010, through approximately July 7, 2012. As a condition of her lease
application, Miller was required to pay a non-refundable application fee of $50, which she paid
on or about April 14, 2010. In order to enter into her lease with ERM, Miller was required to

pay a $500 Amenity Fee, which she paid on or about May 1, 2010. The amenity fee (also known

 

? Section 3.17(4) of 940 C.MLR. states that it "shall be an unfair or deceptive practice for an owner to: (a) require a
tenant or prospective tenant, at or prior to the commencement of any tenancy, to pay any amount in excess of the
following:

1. rent for the first full month of occupancy; and
2. rent for the last full month of occupancy calculated at the same rate as the first month; and
3. a security deposit equal to the first month's rent; and,

4. the purchase and installation cost for a key and lock."

2

 

 
Case 1:12-cv-10779-RWZ Document 70 Filed 02/10/14 Page 3 of 17

as a move-in fee) purportedly covered such items or "amenities" as the fitness center, concierge,
maintenance, and freight elevator. Plaintiffs' Response to Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts in Support of Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment ("SOF Response") Nos. 12, 18.
Yet at other times ERM has said the fee covered the costs incurred in getting an apartment ready
for move-in, such as marketing, lease preparation, communications with tenants, and decorating,
along with associated employee time. Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of
Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment ("SOF") No. 12.7

ERM is a real estate management company that manages residential apartment properties
in Massachusetts as authorized agent of the property owners. ERM also signs all of the leases as
the lessor for all of the Massachusetts properties. As of December 31, 2012, ERM managed 29
residential apartment properties in Massachusetts. SOF Nos. 1, 2; SOF Response No. 1.

On February 23, 2012, the Perrys sent ERM a demand letter pursuant to the Consumer
Protection Statute, Mass. Gen. L. c. 93A, 0x00A7 9(3). ERM responded to the demand on March 6,
2012. On May 8, 2012, Ms. Miller sent ERM a demand letter pursuant to the Consumer
Protection Statute, Mass. Gen. L. c. 93A, 0x00A7 9(3). ERM responded to the demand on May 25,
2012. SOF Nos. 109-110, 112-113. Although the Perry demand and the Miller demand were
both made on behalf of a class, ERM made no offer of relief to the class in response to either
demand nor did ERM make an offer of relief to anyone other than the named parties in each
demand. SOF Nos. 110, 113; SOF Response Nos. 110, 113.

ERM historically has charged move-in fees/amenity fees; application fees; up-front pet

fees; monthly pet fees; and, finally, after it stopped charging the move-in fee prior to occupancy,

 

> Unless otherwise stated, references to SOF Response and SOF are intended to incorporate the Exhibits referenced
or cited therein.

3

 

 
 

Case 1:12-cv-10779-RWZ Document 70 Filed 02/10/14 Page 4 of 17

a community fee.' ERM freely admits that the fees are not treated as a security deposit; are not
kept in an interest bearing account; and are non-refundable and never returned to tenants. SOF
Nos. 4, 15, 25, 34, 43. With very few well-defined exceptions, the application, move-in, and
community fees are/were mandatory and are/were charged to all tenants or prospective tenants;
the pet fees are mandatory and charged to all pet-owning tenants. SOF Nos. 8, 11, 19; SOF
Response Nos. P1, P2. All of the fees violate the Act.

ARGUMENT

A. Plaintiffs are Entitled to Summary Judgment on All Claims

All of the claims asserted and at issue in this case are ripe for summary judgment, and
that there are no triable issues of fact." The claims are strictly subject to legal analysis. As in
Hermida, where summary judgment was awarded to the plaintiffs, this Court should grant
summary judgment in Plaintiffs' favor and deny Defendants' summary judgment motion.
Normally, summary judgment is improper if a verdict for the plaintiff would be sustained against
a motion for a judgment notwithstanding the verdict. Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc. 477 U.S.
242, 250 (1986). This case is unique, in that both parties agree that summary judgment is proper
and that this case should never be tried. The parties disagree, of course, about which side should

prevail on summary judgment.

 

* At the end of February, 2012, due to the decision in Hermida v. Archstone, 826 F. Supp. 2d 380 (D. Mass. 2011),
ERM temporarily suspended the collection of move-in fees in Massachusetts, or, stated another way, ERM at that
time stopped collecting move-in fees prior to occupancy in Massachusetts. Approximately one month later, on or
about March 28, 2012, ERM "pushed [the move-in fee] into the second month [of tenancy]." At that time, ERM
resumed the charging and collection of the move-in fee (or an amenity fee), re-labeling it as a "community fee," and
instead of collecting it prior to occupancy, put in place a procedure by which the fee would still be charged prior to
occupancy but would be collected at the beginning of the second full month of tenancy. The community fee is
actually a resumption or continuation of the move-in fee, or an amenity fee, with a simple tweak as to the timing of
collection; such a tweak is a blatant attempt to evade the Act and the Hermida decision. SOF Response Nos. 11, 17,
18, 40.

0x00B0 "Summary judgment is appropriate where there is no genuine issue of material fact and the moving party is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law." Ponte v. Steelcase, Inc., - F.3d - , 2013 WL 341166 at *7 (1 Cir., January 31,
2014) (internal quotation marks and citations omitted)

4

 

 
 

Case 1:12-cv-10779-RWZ Document 70 Filed 02/10/14 Page 5 of 17

Specifically, Plaintiffs are entitled to judgment as a matter of law that the fees charged
and collected by ERM that are at issue in this case (i.e., the move-in/amenity fee, the application
fee, the up-front and monthly pet fees and the community fee) were and are unlawfully charged
and collected in violation of G.L., c. 186, 0x00A7 15B(1)(b) and that by this conduct, Defendant |
engaged in unfair and deceptive practices violative of G.L., c. 93A, 0x00A7 2. Further, Plaintiffs are
entitled to judgment as a matter of law that pursuant to G.L., c. 93A 0x00A7 9, they suffered injury
causally related to Defendant's violation of c. 93A 0x00A7 2, and that Plaintiffs are entitled to actual
and multiple damages for Defendant's wilful and knowing violation of c. 186, 0x00A7 15B and c. 93A,
0x00A7 2.

If this Court certifies the Class as requested in Plaintiffs' Motion for Class Certification,
the judgment sought by this Motion will be a judgment for and on behalf of the entire Class
against Defendant. Plaintiffs are also entitled to judgment for equitable relief in the form of an
injunction, ordering Defendant to cease charging the unlawful fees that are at issue in this case.
Accordingly, Plaintiffs are seeking judgment in the form of refunds to Plaintiffs and all Class
members of any move-in or amenity fees, pet fees and/or community fees they paid since May 1,
2008, plus interest and an order permanently enjoining Defendant from charging any of these

fees at its Massachusetts properties. Upon entry of that judgment, Plaintiffs are also entitled to an

award of attorneys' fees and costs, pursuant to c. 93A, 0x00A7 9.

B. The Act Unambiguously Prohibits Any Up-Front Charges Other Than The Four
Charges Listed in the Act.

ERM desperately tries to make the case that the Act's wording is ambiguous. If it were,
ERM could try (as it does) to argue legislative history, varying interpretations, and the parsing _

out of language. ERM is incorrect. As discussed below, the Act is decidedly unambiguous.

5

 

 
Case 1:12-cv-10779-RWZ Document 70 Filed 02/10/14 Page 6 of 17

ERM also desperately tries to argue that the Act does not regulate non-refundable fees and that
the Act is only concerned with refundable security deposits. But the plain language of the Act
deals with several charges that are non-refundable, such as first month's rent and the cost of a
new lock and key. These are charges paid by tenants that they never see again. While
refundable security deposits and their treatment (interest bearing accounts, etc.) are certainly an
important part of the Act, ERM's argument that the Legislature was only concerned with

refundable security deposits is simply wrong.

The law was enacted to protect residential tenants from financial abuse at the inception of
their leases and from being taken advantage of by unscrupulous, powerful landlords. "By
limiting the freedom of landlords and tenants to contract in this regard, the Legislature
manifested a concern for the welfare of tenants in residential property who, as a practical matter,
are generally in inferior bargaining positions and find traditional avenues of redress relatively
useless; i.e., the legal expense of chasing a security deposit would be more than the amount of

the deposit."0x00B0 Goes v. Feldman, 8 Mass. App. Ct. 84, 91 (1979). See Mellor v. Berman, 390

 

Mass. 275, 279, 282, (1983) (the Act "is unambiguous," and must be interpreted as written);
Jason v. Jacobson, 387 Mass. 21, 24 (1982) ("the statute is unambiguous"). It requires no maxim
of statutory construction to appreciate precisely what the legislature had in mind, and to see that

it accomplished its goals with plain and straightforward language. Quite simply, the Act lists up-

 

0x00B0 ERM's tenants are exactly the types of people that the SJC undoubtedly had in mind when it spoke, in Goes, of the
welfare of tenants who are in "inferior bargaining positions." ERM's motion disingenuously paints a picture of
freedom to contract, and says the Act does not regulate what a landlord can "ask" a tenant to pay. ERM Brief at p.
10. Ofcourse, that is plain silly. The tenants who seek to live at ERM's apartments are not "asked" by ERM to pay
any of the bevy of mandatory fees. Rather, the fees are required if tenants want to live there. There is no
bargaining--. if the tenant does not want to pay the fees, he/she cannot live there.

6

 

 

 
Case 1:12-cv-10779-RWZ Document 70 Filed 02/10/14 Page 7 of 17

front charges that a landlord may require tenants or prospective tenants to pay. Any charge not

included in the Act is not permissible.

In several ways, ERM resourcefully, but incorrectly, tries to twist the Act to conform the
statutory language to its own conduct. ERM half-heartedly argues the logic of the "total
amount" or "amount in excess of" theory, already rejected by Judge Young in Hermida. ERM
Brief at p. 4. This theory would allow a landlord to charge any fees, so long as the total amount
of those fees is less than or equal to the sum of four items: first's month rent, last month's rent, a
security deposit, and installation cost for a new lock and key. If the landlord charged any sum
that was less than the sum of "the four items," ERM's theory goes, then the charges would be
legal. Judge Young correctly rejected that approach because, quite simply, the amenity fee was
not one of the enumerated fees listed in the Act. "This Court concludes that even though
Archstone Reading did not exceed any of the statutory categories, the amenity use fee did not fit

within any of them." Hermida, 826 F. Supp. at 387.

ERM intentionally and unnecessarily complicates the issue, driven by the mindset that
muddying the waters (in order to create ambiguities in the statutory language) may lead to a
ruling in its favor. In this spirit, ERM spends much time waxing about how terms such as "rent,"
"amount in excess of," and "prospective tenant" are not defined in the Act. ERM points out that
the language of Section 15B (7) of the Act is open to several constructions. That section, of
course, has nothing to do with this case and has nothing to do with Section 15B (1) (b). Because
of this purported overwhelming ambiguity, ERM argues, the Court must examine legislative
history and purpose. Incredibly - and tellingly --- ERM dedicates more than half of its brief to
discussing legislative history and the different iterations of the Act, and spends precious little

7

 

 
Case 1:12-cv-10779-RWZ Document 70 Filed 02/10/14 Page 8 of 17

time on the actual claims and fees at issue in this case. That's because arguing the actual merits

of the claim will lead to the same outcome that befell Archstone in the Hermida case-judgment

for the Plaintiffs.'

ERM's statutory interpretation is both forced and fundamentally inconsistent with the
plain meaning of the Act's language and the legislative goals it was enacted to accomplish. If a
landlord can forego charging a security deposit and instead charge any other amount up to the
amount that the security deposit would have been, then the Act's protections melt away. For
instance, a residential landlord could forego charging a "security deposit" and instead charge a
non-refundable "rehab" or "cleaning" fee equal to one-month's rent. Inasmuch as it is not,
technically, a "security deposit," the landlord could simply keep the money as revenue and use
that fee at the end of the lease to rehab or clean the unit - or not, without being required to
separately account for that money, segregate it, pay interest on it, etc. In other words, the
landlord could accomplish what a security deposit is intended to accomplish simply by calling
the security deposit by some other name. Likewise, a landlord could charge the equivalent of
three months' rent up front, call that charge whatever it wished, and then begin collecting rent
after the lease is signed. Or a landlord could charge an insulation fee, or a carpet fee, or a light
bulb fee, or all of them, as long as the total amount charged was less than the sum of the
aforementioned "four charges:" first month's rent, last month's rent, security deposit, and lock
and key charge. Nothing would prevent the aforementioned forms of economic abuse - the kind

of abuse the legislature intended to curb - if ERM's interpretation of the Act is correct.

 

7 ERM's legislative history argument with respect to the Act is irrelevant for an additional reason. The regulations
promulgated pursuant to c. 93A, 0x00A7 2, specifically 940 C.M.R. 0x00A7 3.17(4), contain the exact same limitations as the Act
on the fees that can be charged to tenants or prospective tenants, but these regulations are not subject to any of the
legislative history cited by ERM. Seen. 2, above.

8

 

 
 

Case 1:12-cv-10779-RWZ Document 70 Filed 02/10/14 Page 9 of 17

Hermida, while a case of first impression on "amenity fees" specifically, is not the first
case of its ilk to find in a tenant's favor. In Carter v. Seto, 2005 Mass. App. Div. 62 (App.
Div.2005), the Massachusetts Appellate Division considered whether charging a deposit on a
garage door mechanism and electric eye violated the Act. The defendant argued that the
equipment was a functional equivalent of a key and lock. The Appellate Division disagreed. It
concluded that because the fee the defendant "received was designated as a `deposit for [a]
garage door mechanism and electric eye unit,'" the fee could not be reconciled with the Act's
limitations.(R) Id. at *3. See Dolben Co., Inc. v. Friedmann, 2008 Mass. App. Div. 1, at *4 (Mass.
App. Div. 2008) (holding that the Act "prohibits landlords from requiring new tenants to pay
monies in addition to the first month's rent, the last month's rent, the security deposit, and a cost
of purchasing and installing a new lock", and therefore concluding that a $35 application fee
violated the Act).?

1. The Application Fee

ERM argues that its $50 application fee does not violate the Act because of the costs
associated with "processing" the applications of prospective tenants. Fundamentally, as with the
move-in fee or amenity fee, the application fee - charged to all prospective tenants, whether the
applicant winds up living at an ERM property or not -- violates the Act because it is not one of
the charges enumerated in the statute.

A prominent Massachusetts Housing Court judge has agreed with this view. In Broad

Street Associates v. Levine, No.12-SP-2041 (Northeast Housing Court, July 30, 2012, Kerman,

 

* The court declined to address whether the fee could be considered as a permissible lock-and-key fee because the
landlord did not designate it as such. Id. at *3.

0x00B0 The Dolben holding, while clear, is obscured somewhat by the court's subsequent observation that there was no
evidence that the fee was charged to anyone other than the plaintiff, who had already agreed to lease the unit. Id. at
*4,

 

 

 

 
 

Case 1:12-cv-10779-RWZ Document 70 Filed 02/10/14 Page 10 of 17

J.) (copy attached hereto as Exhibit A), which post-dates Hermida, the Court held that a $45
application fee was impermissible and violative of the Act because, like the amenity fee in
Hermida, the application fee "violated the excess payments requirement" of Section 15B (1)(b).'0x00B0

ERM argues that the application fee is beyond the reach of sec. 15B (1) (b) because an
"applicant" is not a "prospective tenant" until the applicant has qualified and received a written
lease offer. ERM Brief at p. 11-12. This is patently absurd. Someone applying to live at an
ERM property is, by definition, a prospective tenant. Prospective, by definition, means
"expected or expecting to be something particular in the future."

2. The Move-In Fee

ERM barely argues that its "move-in" fee is legal. ERM Brief at p. 12. ERM's move-in
fee is as close as imaginable to Archstone's illegal amenity fee at issue in Hermida. It is a one-
time, non-refundable, mandatory fee that ERM forces all tenants to pay if they actually want to
move in to their apartment. In other words, if you want to live at an Equity apartment, you have
to pay the fee. This is impermissible under the law.

Hopeless to actually construct a cognizable argument, ERM instead spends a few
sentences jabbing at Plaintiff Miller for paying a moving fee at her current apartment (the one she
moved to after living at her Equity unit) that ERM claims to be a move-in fee. This moving fee
paid by Miller is not a move-in fee or amenity fee for several reasons: a) the moving fee is a

charge paid by Miller to cover the costs, including additional staff, of her move into the unit on a

 

0x00B0 ERM's focus on "hard" and "soft" costs is immaterial. The "hard" costs are presumably tied to the actual cost for
things like conducting criminal background checks; the "soft" costs are presumably tied to the "employee time"
associated with reviewing credit reports and employment history. SOF Nos. 6-7. Tellingly, however, ERM does
not disclose how much money it actually spends on acquiring a criminal background history. ERM is correct that
Dolben does discuss the possibility that a fee may be "reasonable" if there are actual expenses that the company
spends, out of pocket, to perform the necessary checks and verifications. But missing from ERM's presentation is
how much money it simply pockets (and therefore earns) from the application fee, as opposed to covering actual
monies it spent. In any event, per Broad Street, the entire application fee is illegal and not permitted by the Act.

10

 

 
