Heartland Recreational Vehicles LLC v. Forest River Inc

Doc. 99

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 1 of 14

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
Northern District of Indiana
South Bend Division
HEARTLAND RECREATIONAL
VEHICLES, LLC,
Plaintiff,
v.
FOREST RIVER, INC.,
Defendant.

)
)
)
) CASE NO.:3:08-cv-490 TLS
)
)
)
JURY DEMAND

FOREST RIVER’S REPLY TO HEARTLAND AND BAKER & DANIELS RESPONSE
TO FOREST RIVER’S MOTION TO COMPEL DOCUMENT PRODUCTION FROM
HEARTLAND AND BAKER & DANIELS

Summary of the Reply:
Considering that we know about the prior art investigation that was done by Heartland and
what we know we do not know about that investigation, the single most reasonable inference to be
drawn is that Heartland was not merely cultivating ignorance, it was harvesting it. The knowledge
of the person who conducted the “search” seals that inference to reality, and is highly relevant to this
case. Accordingly, the information sought to identify that person and the documents involved in the
search are also highly relevant and, since the burden is minimal in producing those records, the
motion should be granted.

Analysis of Heartland’s Response:
Heartland argues that the information sought is of “little importance” and stresses that “a

1

Dockets.Justia.com

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 2 of 14

patent applicant has no duty to perform a prior art search.” That latter point is misleading. The
undisputed fact is, Heartland (or someone acting on its behalf) actually did perform a prior
art search. Having done that, it was bound to disclose any relevant and material information that
it found to the USPTO. It is also an undisputed fact that some of the information, in the form of 14
recent patents, was disclosed to the USPTO. Two questions remain: 1.) was all of the relevant and
material information from that search disclosed, and 2.) was the search intentionally curtailed so that
no relevant and material information would be found that would invalidate the claims being sought in other words was the search merely pro forma, but in reality ignorance was being cultivated?
Forest River was entitled to receive this information at least since its production Request No. 9,
which stated:
To the extent not otherwise requested herein, all documents and things which
describe, refer to, discuss, or relate to any investigation by or on behalf of Heartland
into the patentability of the invention(s) of the patent in this lawsuit or the validity
of the patent in this lawsuit, including the identity of any prior art which is ”material”
to the claims of the patents in this lawsuit, as that term is meant in 37 C.F.R. §1.56.
Exhibit H. This request was served on December 14, 2008. In response to this request Heartland
produced nothing about a search or prior art investigation itself. Heartland has repeatedly argued
that is has no “Search Report” about this investigation. Instead, the 14 patents just “appeared” in Mr.
Cooper’s file. Perhaps the search report, a normal document created whenever such an investigation
is done, no longer exists in Heartland’s files. Certainly, however, the bill for that work does exist.
If the bill can be found and the person who did the investigation identified, then that person may
have a copy of the search report or the instructions received indicating what the scope of the
investigation was to be. That is what this motion is all about - tracking down who and what he/she
did in terms of the prior art investigation that actually was done.
2

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 3 of 14

Heartland argues that is of “little importance.” Nothing could be further from the truth. The
Amended Answer asserts specifically that “fraud and inequitable conduct” render the ‘650 patent
unenforceable. DE#21-2, ¶67. The concept of “fraud upon the USPTO” finds its modern root in
Precision Instr. Mfg. Co. v. Auto. Maint. Mach. Co., 324 U.S 806, 816 (1945), where the Court noted
that “a patent by its very nature is affected with a public interest . . is an exception to the general rule
against monopolies . . [and] therefore, give the public a paramount interest in seeing that patent
monopolies spring from backgrounds free from fraud or other inequitable conduct.”
A wide variety of Courts and laws have defined what constitutes “fraud.” Using Indiana law,
since the present case arose entirely between Indiana participants who are all bound by Indiana law,
there are two basic types of fraud: actual fraud and constructive fraud. The essential elements of
actual fraud are:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

A representation of material past or existing facts,
Which representation is false,
Which was made with knowledge or reckless ignorance of the falsity, and
Which causes reliance to the detriment of the person relying upon it.
Moreover, the false statement must have been made intentionally.

The essential elements of constructive fraud are the same except that a remedy is provided regardless
of the intent if the behavior provides one party with an “unconscionable advantage.” Henkin v.
Skane-Gripen, A.B., 986 F. 2d 1424, 1993 WL 36870, *5-7 (7th Cir. 1993)(unpublished but
containing useful analysis and citing extensive authority therein, as articulated by Judge Miller of
this Court). Further, it has been recognized in Indiana that “a reckless indifference to the truth is “the
functional equivalent” of fraud.” In re Jongsma , 402 B.R. 858, 874 (Bkrtcy, N.D. Ind. 2009).
Similarly, liability can exist at common law for fraudulent non-disclosure where a duty to disclose
exists. See, e.g. Restatement (Second) of Torts §551 (1977).
3

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 4 of 14

Furthermore, 37 C.F.R. §1.56 states, in pertinent part:
(a) A patent by its very nature is affected with a public interest. Each individual
associated with the filing and prosecution of a patent application has a duty of candor
and good faith in dealing with the Office, which includes a duty to disclose to the
Office all information known to that individual to be material to patentability . . .The
duty to disclose information exists with respect to each pending claim until that claim
is cancelled or withdrawn from consideration, or the application becomes abandoned.
. . .However, no patent will be granted on an application in connection with which
fraud on the Office was practiced or attempted or the duty of disclosure was violated
through bad faith or intentional misconduct. . .
© Individuals associated with the filing or prosecution of a patent application within
the meaning of this section are:
(1) Each inventor named in the application.;
(2) Each attorney or agent who prepared or prosecutes the application; and
(3) Every other person who is substantively involved in the preparation or
prosecution of the application and who is associated with the inventor, with
the assignee or with anyone to whom there is an obligation to assign the
application.
(d) Individuals other than the attorney, agent or inventor may comply with this
section by disclosing information to the attorney, agent or inventor.
Emphasis added. Thus, while Mr. Cooper may have been the person filing the 14 patents with the
USPTO because at the time he was the “prosecution attorney,” since Baker & Daniels was
“associated with the assignee” (Heartland) as litigation counsel, see Exhibit L and M, if they, or
anyone else did a prior art investigation for purposes of litigation preparation, that prior art should
also have been disclosed.1 It is also abundantly clear from case law that in the context of patent
prosecution, because there is an affirmative duty to disclose material information under Rule 1.56,
the “misrepresentation” aspect of common law fraud can arise either where there are affirmative
misstatements of material fact and where material facts have been withheld.
1

Similarly, if a prior art investigation was done in connection with valuing the patent
application for purposes of a bank loan, any relevant and material information found by the
accounting firm in that regard is attributed to Heartland and was required to be disclosed as well.
This is in part the basis for the opposition of Forest River to Heartland’s co-pending motion for
protective order, DE#74.
4

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 5 of 14

Getting back to defining the full scope of prohibited conduct, the Precision court did not,
however, specifically define the scope of what constitutes the “other inequitable conduct” which
should bar a patent. It is well recognized that “inequitable conduct” encompassing something
broader than common law fraud. See, e.g. Exergen Corp. v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 575 F. 3d 1312,
1326 (Fed. Cir. 2009). And while there is no general duty to conduct a prior art search, “one should
not be able to cultivate ignorance . . . merely to avoid actual knowledge of that information or prior
art.” FMC Corp. v. Hennessy Inds., Inc., 836 F. 2d. 521, 526 n. 6 (Fed Cir. 1987). Once on notice
of a likelihood that material information exists and if it can be ascertained with reasonable inquiry,
there is a duty to inquire - you cannot intentionally avoid learning about it even through gross
negligence, especially where the information needed is in the hands of your own client. Brasseler
U.S.A. I, L.P. v. Stryker Sales Corp., 267 F. 3d 1370, 1380 (Fed. Cir. 2001).
It has been said that “gross negligence” alone is not always enough to infer an intent to
deceive. Kingsdown Med. Consultants, Ltd. v. Hollister, Inc., 863 F. 2d 867, 873 (Fed. Cir. 1988).
Addressing the issue further, that court explained that “gross negligence has been used as a label for
various patterns of conduct. It is definable, however, only in terms of a particular at or acts viewed
in light of all the circumstances.” Id, at 876. And therein lies the problem, the use of broad labels
to attempt to define what is essentially just something that is “not equitable” under all the
circumstances of the case.
Similarly vague, is Rule 1.56. The portion therein which states that: “no patent will be
granted on an application in connection with which fraud was practiced or attempted or the duty of
disclosure was violated through bad faith or intentional misconduct,” then literally gives four
alternative bars to patentability:
5

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

1.
2.
3.
4.

filed 02/28/10 page 6 of 14

Fraud,
Attempted fraud,
Violation of the duty of disclosure through bad faith, or
Violation of the duty of disclosure through intentional misconduct.

Beyond that, the rule provides no guidance as to what specific conduct is barred, and the MPEP
(Manual of Patent Examining Procedure - published by the USPTO as a guide) similarly provides
no detailed description of the extent of conduct which constitutes a violation. Instead, MPEP
Chapter 2000 addresses at length the risks of non-compliance and, at §2004, provides a variety of
“aides” to compliance. If followed, presumably those guides give the practitioner a “safe harbor.”
Given the MPEP’s warnings about the risks of an inequitable conduct ruling and the oft-lamented
“plague” of inequitable conduct claims being made in patent litigation,2 would any reasonable
practitioner NOT use those aides?3
Searching for additional guidance in the case law of the Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit since Precision, we see the growth of the “sliding scale” rule of materiality vs. intent.
Materiality, for the most part is more readily understood, especially since 37 C.F.R. §1.56(b) sets an
express standard for it. The various panels of that Court have struggled, however, with consistently
defining what constitutes sufficient “bad intent” or “intent to deceive,” particularly when dealing
with acts of omission, such as is the subject of the present motion. Depending upon the particular

2

As often as Courts lament the abundance of inequitable conduct claims in patent
litigation, one cannot also help but notice that those claims are still often upheld by the evidence
when the trier of fact examines the evidence and credibility of the witnesses. Somehow, the
message is not getting through to enough practitioners to “use candor and good faith” in patent
prosecution.
3

Mr. Cooper and Mr. Gallagher testified and the documents of record show that they did
not fully utilize those aids and did not take advantage of the “safe harbor.” The impact of this
will be dealt with separately in response to Heartland’s motion for pending summary judgment.
6

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 7 of 14

panel of the Court in a given case, a wide range of standards have been articulated, some of which
are inherently conflicting. Without going into tremendous detail on the history of this issue herein,
suffice to say that the situation has culminated in Larson Mfg. Co. v. Aluminart Prods. Ltd., 559 F.
3d 1317 (Fed. Cir. 2009).
That particular panel of the Court held that inequitable conduct must be shown by clear and
convincing evidence, Id, at 1326, but that intent to deceive can be inferred from circumstantial
evidence where the inference is the single most reasonable inference able to be drawn from the
totality of the evidence, Id, at 1340, and the trier of fact is required to balance the “levels of
materiality and intent, with a greater showing of one factor allowing a lessor showing of the other,”
Id, at 1327. However, in that case Judge Linn’s concurring opinion explained that other panels of
the Court have “set a standard even lower than gross negligence, ” down to “simple negligence,”
citing Praxair, Inc. v. ATMI, Inc. 543 F. 3d 1306 (Fed. Cir. 2008), Id, at 1343-44, and in the end he
expressly called for the Court to resolve the entire inequitable conduct doctrine as matter for the
Court en banc. Id, at 1344.
In the context of the present motion, however, we do not have to peer into “crystal ball” and
determine precisely what an en banc Court of Appeals would do in articulating a “unified theory”
of inequitable conduct, or, for that matter, even precisely what a trier of fact would actually do in
these circumstances. This is merely a discovery dispute, not the ultimate determination of
unenforceability. The scope and purpose of discovery is to obtain information “regarding any nonprivileged matter that is relevant to any party’s claim or defense” and relevance is defined as that
which is “reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” Fed. R. Civ. P.
26(b)(1). Generally, broad discovery is available under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. See
7

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 8 of 14

Blancha v. Raymark Industries, 972 F. 2d 507, 514 (3d Cir. 1992)(“Thus the rule, while giving
judges great freedom to admit evidence, diminishes substantially their authority to exclude evidence
as irrelevant”). Privileges excluding relevant evidence are to be construed narrowly because the they
constrict the fact-finding process. Ryan v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 568 F. 2d 531, 542-3
(7th Cir. 1977), cert. denied, 439 U.S. 820 (1978).
In the context of the present case then, the inquiry is: would the billing statements or other
records of Heartland indicating information about the prior art investigation lead to the discovery of
information which tends to show (or disprove) the “single most reasonable inference” of intent to
deceive, “cultivation of ignorance,” “unconscionable advantage,” or some other bad faith or
circumstance which was “not equitable?” The evidence of record thus far, showing what we do
know, suggests yes, it would. Specifically, we know:
1. The 14 patents that were disclosed to the USPTO mysteriously appeared in Mr.
Cooper’s files, and he has no knowledge of how. Query: when was that last time that any
attorney opened up his file and just “found” relevant and material evidence in it from an
unknown source, so relevant and material in fact, that he felt compelled to file it with the
USPTO? If any attorney just “found” such evidence in his file, would not the most single
reasonable thing to do be to find where it came from?
2. Mr. Cooper knew that Heartland wanted a “defensible” patent and that it intended
to litigate that patent. Exhibit B. It is well established that the best way to make a patent
“defensible” is to disclose to the USPTO all of the prior art known or knowable so as to
obtain the full “presumption of validity” under 35 U.S.C. 282. See, e.g., MPEP §2001.5,
“strengthen the patent,” copy attached hereto as Exhibit O. Thus, Mr. Cooper had a
8

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 9 of 14

heightened responsibility to his client towards a prior art investigation.
3. The usual practice of Mr. Cooper’s firm in dealing with RV patents, given the
extensive prior art readily known in the industry, was to conduct detailed prior art
investigations and disclose to the USPTO prior art extending as far back in time as could be
readily found. See, e.g., Exhibit A. This was Mr. Cooper’s practice as well. Exhibit S; page
99, line5 - page 100, line 4. This practice of Barnes & Thornburg’s is not limited to RV
patents. See, e.g., Exhibit P. This practice is usual with other firms dealing with RV patents.
See, e.g., Exhibits Q and R. Thus, both Mr. Cooper and Mr. Gallagher (his successor as
prosecution attorney) could be expected to follow their firms’ established practices,
especially as they were partners in those firms.
4. Mr. Cooper’s firm had been recently alerted to the need for careful prior art
investigation in the RV industry by losing the Damon patent case before this same court,4
and having to reimburse Forest River its attorneys fees and costs in that lawsuit. Further, just
prior to the filing of Heartland’s patent application, in the case of Stant Mfg., Inc. v. Gerdes,
GmbH, Case No. 1:02-cv-1653 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana,
Mr. Taylor, the same expert witness Heartland employed in this lawsuit, found that Mr.
Cooper’s firm had committed inequitable conduct in connection with another patent! See,
e.g., Exhibit D to DE#89 in the present case. Thus, Mr. Cooper and Mr. Gallagher could be
expected to be especially sensitive to not repeating the embarrassments their firm has

4

Damon Corporation v. Forest River, Civil Action No. 3:99-cv-123 - RLM-RDP. Mr.
Gallagher testified that he participated in that case while at Barnes & Thornburg. The case ended
when a 1977 Scamper advertisement showing virtually the same “invention” was found to have
been in Barnes & Thornburg’s files since prior to the lawsuit.
9

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 10 of 14

suffered from past misconduct.
5. As mentioned in the present motion papers, DE#88, the patents that were
disclosed went back only 20 years, clearly indicating to any practitioner that only an
infringement search, at best, had been conducted or that only part of the patentability search
was conducted.
6. Seven of the 14 patents rested upon the work of two inventors, Crean and Ingram
(both of whom are well known in the RV industry, one being associated with Teton Homes
and the other Alpha Leisure). Also as indicated in DE#88, the usual practice of looking a the
cited references in these patents would have instantly revealed U.S. 2,322,841, Exhibit C.
This ‘841 is highly material evidence because it completely anticipates the Heartland patent
(compare Fig.14 of the ‘841 patent, for example, with Fig. 8 of the Heartland patent).
7. Barnes & Thornburg’s billing records were only a portion of the bills that
Heartland received in connection with the patent. Baker & Daniels sent bills concerning the
patent, and possibly the “professional searcher” that Mr. Cooper referred to sent bills. See,
Exhibit S; page 103, line 5 - page 104, line 14. As Heartland emphasizes in its response, the
potential sources of the mysteriously appearing 14 patents could be “either a formal search,
which I don’t think I saw any notification, or reporting out letter that one was done.” Formal
searches are often done by professional searchers. Reporting letters or notifications or search
reports are common when those are done. But Mr. Cooper claims not to have seen any,
which would be explained if: 1.) the person who put those patents in Mr. Cooper’s files only
passed on part of the information received from the search, or 2.) Mr. Cooper was not telling
the truth. There is corroboration in Barnes & Thornburg’s billing records that no search was
10

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 11 of 14

done by that firm, so Mr. Cooper may have been telling the truth, and we come back to the
first alternative. Someone else did the search and passed on at least part of it to Mr. Cooper.
8. It has repeatedly been pointed out to this Court elsewhere that in 2005 when Forest
River first was accused of patent infringement by Baker & Daniels, it responded by
informing those attorneys that the patent could not be infringed because of the prior art in the
industry. Accordingly, it is reasonable to assume that law firm, as part of its pre-litigation
investigation, did some investigation to find out if Forest River’s allegation was correct.
Nothing, however, was produced in that regard in response to Request No. 9 or, according
to Mr. Cooper’s records, nothing was given to him in that regard. Having been put on notice,
did that large law firm simply ignore the possibility that the patent would be invalid? That
is not the most likely reasonable inference in light of the prohibitions of FMC Corp., supra,
and the fact that Mr. Gallagher had personally seen the devastating results of insufficient prelitigation investigation against Forest River previously.
9. The alternatives then narrow to the so-called “informal search” or a professional
search done by some other law firm (like Baker & Daniels) or business entity. Given that
the Heartland inventors were not sophisticated patent investigators and that there is no
correspondence in Mr. Cooper’s files which refers to any search being done by them other
than in regard to the one Canadian prior trailer, an informal search being done by Heartland
itself seems implausible. It is most reasonable to assume therefore, that any formal or
informal search done here was done by some entity other than Heartland, either a law firm
like Baker & Daniels who was preparing for litigation and would have an incentive to
determine the likely validity of the patent prior to incurring such expense, or an accounting
11

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 12 of 14

firm valuing the patent in the context of prior art, or some other entity assisting Heartland
specially for the prior art investigation. In those cases, it is also most likely that Heartland
was billed for that work. Accordingly, a record of that would be in the bills or invoices that
Heartland received and in its payments of those bills, even if Heartland somehow “lost” all
correspondence requesting that investigation or the correspondence transmitting at least the
14 patents to Heartland.

Therefore, as part of the “documents and things which describe, refer to, discuss, or relate
to any investigation” from Request No. 9, Heartland should produce the requested billing records,
even if it does not now have any correspondence about the search itself. Those documents would
show who actually did the prior art investigation. It is reasonable to assume that whoever did the
work has a record of the work that was done (the missing “Search Report”) and correspondence
showing what the parameters were of the search they were requested to perform. If, for example,
the professional searcher was told to stop at 20 years and go no further, that would be, for example,
strong evidence of an “intent not to know” on the part of Heartland or someone acting on its behalf the “cultivation of ignorance” prohibited by law. Further, since shortly after this lawsuit began
Heartland admitted that the patent was invalid and granted the Covenant Not to Sue, the prior art that
was not disclosed to the USPTO was clearly highly material, something Mr. Cooper had at least been
nominally instructed by Heartland to find to make the patent “defensible.” Given the high level of
materiality, a relatively low level of deceptive intent may be sufficient to establish inequitable
conduct or an unconscionable advantage. Accordingly, contrary to Heartland’s assertions, the
information sought is highly important.
12

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 13 of 14

Heartland argues that it is overly burdensome to produce this information, but gives no
evidence of why. Instead, Baker & Daniels argues in effect that its since it did not take over
prosecution responsibility until after the 14 patents were in Mr. Cooper’s files, what investigation
into prior art that firm did before then was not relevant. That is false. If those patents were given
to Mr. Cooper or obtained even indirectly from Baker & Daniels, then the knowledge of prior art is
attributed to Heartland. Moreover, Request No. 9 was not limited to merely investigations for patent
prosecution purposes. Specifically, Baker & Daniels argues that “its is simply impossible that the
time records related to Baker & Daniels’ prosecution of the ‘650 patent . . . could show how those
patents ended up in Barnes & Thornburg’s files.” Response, DE#93, at page 7. Perhaps so, but
Baker & Daniels’ billing records for its pre-litigation investigation, which was by definition “by or
on behalf of Heartland into the patentability of the invention(s) of the patent in this lawsuit or the
validity of the patent in this lawsuit” (See Request No. 9), could easily show how those 14 patents
ended up with Mr. Cooper. Such wordsmithing does not absolve Baker & Daniels of its obligations
under 37 C.F.R. §1.56 or release Heartland from the penalties of “cultivating ignorance.”
Therefore, no evidence of burden being shown, and evidence instead showing a high
likelihood of materiality as well as being reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence, the present motion should be granted.

Dated: February 28, 2010

Respectfully submitted,
s/Ryan M. Fountain
___________________________
Ryan M. Fountain (8544-71)
RyanFountain@aol.com
420 Lincoln Way West
13

case 3:08-cv-00490-TLS-CAN document 99

filed 02/28/10 page 14 of 14

Mishawaka, Indiana 46544
Telephone: (574) 258-9296
Telecopy: (574) 256-5137
ATTORNEY FOR DEFENDANT

Certificate of Service
I certify that on February 28, 2010, I electronically filed the foregoing document with the
Clerk of the Court using CM/ECF system, which sent notification of such filing to all of the parties
through at least the following counsel of record:
David P. Irmscher
Abigail M. Butler

david.irmscher@bakerd.com
abidgail.bulter@bakerd.com

s/Ryan M. Fountain
Ryan M. Fountain
ATTORNEY FOR DEFENDANT

EXHIBITS
Exhibit O

MPEP Section 2002.5

Exhibit P

Excerpt of US Patent 7,600,817

Exhibit Q

Excerpt of US Patent 6,983,979

Exhibit R

Excerpt of US Patent 7,350,850

Exhibit S

Excerpt of Greg Cooper Deposition Transcript

14

