 

 

Case 1:13-cv-00539-JRG Document 21 Filed 09/04/13 Page 1 of 3
Case JRG-13CV 539 mh

Lon i ok poundO
US. DiS Rich COURT
INSPRICT CF UIARYE AS
iN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
CHIQCED Lh Att. 9
FOR THE STATE OF MARYLAND ENISEP -4 ANTE: 39
PEo Ty a
RP PAYTE _
KIM K. SUMNER, * OY tla
Plaintiff *
* Civil Case No. JRG-13CV-539
V. *

MARYLAND JUDICIARY/ District Court

Defendant

MOTION TO OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT'S MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF'S
EXHIBIT 8
AND

REQUEST LEAVE TO AMEND PLAINTIFF'S COMPLAINT

{ have sworn and affirmed that Judge Devy Patterson Russell's complaint is genuine. If allowed
and subpoenaed, Judge Devy Patterson Russell will testify to all the events of which she has

knowledge and witnessed.

   
  

oe
 

arses eens srsscarncs cmap rr

Case 1:13-cv-00539-JRG Document 21 Filed 09/04/13 Page 2 of 3
Case JRG-13CV 539

I, Kim K. Sumner, Plaintiff, argue the following in Defendant's Motion to Strike Exhibit 8:

(See Attached Affidavit of Judge Devy Patterson Russell, attached hereto). l intend to
subpoena the witness of the other misconduct of Judge Hargrove, Judge Clyburn and
Lonnie Ferguson as noted in Judge Devy Patterson Russell's complaint to demonstrate

my claim for a sexuaily hostile work environment.

* All of the information contained in the exhibits are not hearsay, but witnessed by Judge
Devy Patterson Russell; also, some conduct may not be offered for the truth of matters
asserted, but instead prove motive, intent, and knowledge of management (ie. Judge
Hargrove and Judge Clyburn), related to the sexual harassment and hostile work
environment and the discipline of Administrative Clerk, Lonnie Ferguson.

* The complaint process may be confidential, but the allegations and facts are not
confidential. The Complaint is simply the evidence | intend to show at trail.

cent The fact that charges were not brought by the judicial Disabilities Commission, does not
mean that the Commission found that the allegations were unfounded or untrue.

Note: Interviews that were conducted by Council were not sworn under oath. | myself
questioned the thoroughness and integrity in respect to my own Judicial Complaint.

For Example: Thomas Murphy told me that it was Judge Clyburn that did the penalty
phase of Lonnie Ferguson; however, in the Summary Judgment submitted by
Defendant, it stated that both Judge Clyburn and Judge Hargrove did the penalty phase
of Lonnie Ferguson, Also, Mr. Murphy did not even question me in regard to my
complaint about Judge Hargrove's threat to put me in the basement at Eastside if I did
not want to work with Lonnie Ferguson.

Who actually penalized Lonnie Ferguson is a critical fact. | can only find that fact out if |
can continue to trial and find out through discovery.

cent My case should be allowed to proceed with discovery so ! can bring out the facts

supporting my complaint.

 
 

Case 1:13-cv-00539-JRG Document 21 Filed 09/04/13 Page 3 of 3
Case JRG-13CV 539

Respectfully, alternatively plaintiff pleads the court requesting leave for fourteen (14) days to amend
complaint to incorporate the allegations made by Judge Russell in her Judicial Disabilities Complaint,
without reference to her Disabilties complaint. The defendant cannot claim Prejudice as the
defendant has admitted much of the substance of the allegations in my complaint and has not started

discovery,

Respectfully submitted t swear and affirm this 28" day of August, 2013, |, Kim K. Sumner the above is

true and honest to the best of my knowledge.

(Footnote: Plaintiff wants to add occurrence that happened yesterday, 8/27/13, to further establish
an on-going hostile work environment. Please see exhibit 1, email to Executive Director of Human

Resources, Sharon Ball).

An staal 3

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

 

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this the 29" day of August, 2013, a copy of the foregoing was sent
via UPS overnight mail to the Federal Court House 101 W. Lombard Street, Baltimore, MD 21201,
Clerk's Office, 4" floor. and to Defendant, Attorney General's Office, 200 St. Paul Street, Baltimore,
MD 21202, attention to H. Scott Curtis,
