Case 1:07-cv-11189-RGS Document 85

Filed 11/18/10 Page 1 of 7

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
IN THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS
ASYMMETRX, INC., and
PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF
HARVARD COLLEGE,
Plaintiffs,
Civil Action No: 1:07-cv-11189-RGS
v.
BIOCARE MEDICAL LLC ,
Defendant.
MEMORANDUM OF LAW IN SUPPORT OF HARVARD’S
PARTIALLY ASSENTED-TO MOTION TO STAY AND COMPEL ARBITRATION
Plaintiff President and Fellows of Harvard College (“Harvard”) hereby submits this
Memorandum of Law in support of its Motion to Compel Arbitration. As Harvard informed this
Court in its response to AsymmetRx, Inc.’s Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint to Join
Harvard as a Required Party Plaintiff, the disputes in the above-captioned matter are subject to
the mandatory arbitration provision in the Biological Materials License Agreement between
Harvard and Defendant Biocare Medical LLC (“Biocare”) (the “Biocare License Agreement”),
as the determination of this case hinges on the interpretation of the Biocare License Agreement.
See Biocare License Agreement, Section 7.11, attached hereto as Exhibit A. Resolution of these
disputes will also require consideration of the license agreement between Harvard and
AsymmetRx, Inc. (“AsymmetRx”), which similarly contains an arbitration provision.
Accordingly, the parties must be compelled to arbitration, and this case must be stayed pending
the resolution of the arbitration proceedings.

LIBA/2125075.3

Case 1:07-cv-11189-RGS Document 85

Filed 11/18/10 Page 2 of 7

BACKGROUND
This case concerns Biocare’s infringement of patents covering p63 specific antibodies
and the use of p63 antibodies to diagnose prostate and other cancers, which patents are owned by
Harvard and exclusively licensed to AsymmetRx. AsymmetRx initially brought this action
against Biocare and several other defendants, and after the other defendants had settled with
AsymmetRx, this Court granted summary judgment to Biocare. On appeal, the Federal Circuit
vacated and remanded, “conclud[ing] that AsymmetRx does not have statutory standing to
pursue this action absent the participation of the President and Fellows of Harvard College
(“Harvard”).”
Upon remand, AsymmetRx moved for leave to amend the complaint and add Harvard as
a required party plaintiff, on the grounds that the Federal Circuit’s decision required Harvard to
be joined in order to permit resolution of this case. On October 19, 2010, this Court granted
AsymmetRx’s motion, and on October 20, 2010, an Amended Complaint was filed. Biocare
filed its answer on November 10, 2010, asserting, as its Third Affirmative Defense, the Biocare
License Agreement.
Harvard now moves to compel arbitration of this case and to stay these proceedings
pending resolution of the arbitration, as the disputes between the parties are subject to the
mandatory arbitration provision in the License Agreement between Harvard and Biocare.
Harvard and AsymmetRx are also parties to a license agreement containing an arbitration
provision (the “AsymmetRx License Agreement”), and resolution of the disputes in this case will
also require consideration and interpretation of that agreement. AsymmetRx has assented to this
motion to compel. Biocare, however, has not, despite its full knowledge and awareness that the
Biocare License Agreement requires arbitration of the disputes in this case. Accordingly,

2
LIBA/2125075.3

Case 1:07-cv-11189-RGS Document 85

Filed 11/18/10 Page 3 of 7

Harvard respectfully requests that this Court order that the parties submit to a three-party
arbitration, and issue a stay of these proceedings pending the completion of the arbitration.
ARGUMENT
The disputes between the parties in this case must be compelled to arbitration because
they are subject to a valid and enforceable arbitration agreement. There is a strong federal policy
in favor of enforcing arbitration agreements, which “overwhelmingly favors arbitration – even in
the context of patent licensing disputes.” Amgen, Inc. v. F. Hoffman-Laroche Ltd., 456 F. Supp.
2d 267, 284 (D. Mass 2006) (Young, J.) (citing Moses H. Cone, 460 U.S. at 24-25 and In re
Powertex, Inc., 14 F.3d 612 (Fed. Cir. 1993) (unpublished table decision)); see also Mitsubishi
Motors v. Soler Chrysler-Plymouth, Inc., 473 U.S. 614, 626 n. 14 (1985) (Federal Arbitration
Act is “designed to overcome an anachronistic judicial hostility to agreements to arbitrate ….”).
Pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), 9 U.S.C. § 1, et seq., “a written provision in…
a contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract … shall be valid, irrevocable and enforceable, save upon
such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.” 9 U.S.C. § 2.
Furthermore, §4 of the FAA provides that a “party aggrieved by the alleged failure, neglect, or
refusal of another to arbitrate under a written agreement for arbitration may petition any United
States district court … for an order directing that such arbitration proceed in the manner provided
for in such agreement.”
Here, the Biocare License Agreement contains a valid and enforceable arbitration
provision, which clearly mandates arbitration of the disputes in this case. Section 7.11 of the
Biocare License Agreement provides that “any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to
any provision of this Agreement or the breach thereof…shall be settled through arbitration

3
LIBA/2125075.3

Case 1:07-cv-11189-RGS Document 85

Filed 11/18/10 Page 4 of 7

conducted in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association.” See Biocare
License Agreement (emphasis added), attached hereto as Exhibit A. This language is
unmistakably clear – any disputes “arising out of or relating” the Biocare License Agreement and
its provisions are subject to mandatory arbitration. See Laughton v. CGI Techs. & Solutions,
Inc., 602 F.Supp.2d 262, 265 (D. Mass. 2009) (an antecedent “shall” in arbitration provision
entitled aggrieved party to mandatory arbitration); PowerShare, Inc. v. Syntel, Inc., 597 F.3d 10,
16 (1st Cir. 2010) (finding the word “shall” denoted an obligation to arbitrate).
Although this case, on its face, involves a claim for patent infringement rather than
breach of the License Agreement, it ultimately turns on the interpretation of certain provisions of
the Biocare License Agreement. Accordingly, it falls squarely within the scope of the arbitration
provision in that Agreement. Biocare has asserted the Biocare License Agreement as its Third
Affirmative Defense to the Amended Complaint. When Biocare had argued, earlier in this case,
that its sale of p63 antibodies in the commercial diagnostic field was permitted by the Biocare
License Agreement, AsymmetRx, in response, had countered that the Biocare License
Agreement was not a patent license and did not permit Biocare to sell antibodies in the
commercial diagnostic field. Harvard and AsymmetRx anticipate responding in similar fashion
to Biocare’s assertion of a licensing defense to the Amended Complaint. As this Court observed
in its order on AsymmetRx’s and Biocare’s cross-motions for summary judgment, the “issue [in
this case] is the interpretation of a [] License Agreement between Biocare and Harvard.” See
Memorandum and Order on Cross-Motions for Summary Judgment, dated September 29, 2008,
at 1. Indeed, the bulk of this Court’s order granting summary judgment to Biocare was devoted
to an analysis of that agreement. See Memorandum and Order on Cross-Motions for Summary
Judgment, dated September 29, 2008, at 2-13.

4
LIBA/2125075.3

Case 1:07-cv-11189-RGS Document 85

Filed 11/18/10 Page 5 of 7

Biocare has also brought counterclaims against Harvard and AsymmetRx, including a
counterclaim for a declaratory judgment of non-infringement, which asks the Court to declare
that “Biocare has a valid and enforceable non-exclusive, and non-limited license, to the
biological material covered by the patents.” Counterclaim ¶ 27. Just as the determination of
Harvard and AsymmetRx’s claims against Biocare turns on interpretation of the Biocare License
Agreement, so does determination of Biocare’s counterclaims. Accordingly, all of the disputes
between the parties boil down to the key issue of whether the Biocare License Agreement is a
patent license that permits Biocare to sell p63 antibodies in the commercial diagnostic field, and
cannot be resolved without interpretation of the Biocare License Agreement.
AsymmetRx and Harvard are also parties to a license agreement which grants
AsymmetRx an exclusive license to the p63 patents (the “AsymmetRx License Agreement”).
Biocare’s defense that its sale of p63 antibodies in the commercial diagnostic market is permitted
by its license agreement is essentially an argument that the Biocare License Agreement affects
the scope of AsymmetRx’s exclusive license. Accordingly, an arbitrator will need to consider
the AsymmetRx License Agreement and the Biocare License Agreement together in order to
resolve this dispute. The AsymmetRx License Agreement contains an arbitration provision, and
AsymmetRx has agreed to the arbitration of this dispute and to a stay of this case pending
resolution of the arbitration proceedings. Biocare, however, has refused to consent to arbitration,
despite the clear and unambiguous arbitration provision in the Biocare License Agreement.
Because this dispute falls squarely within the scope of that provision, Biocare must also be
compelled to arbitration. Harvard has prepared a Demand for Arbitration against both
AsymmetRx and Biocare, in accordance with the AsymmetRx License Agreement and the
Biocare License Agreement, and is prepared to file this demand with the American Arbitration

5
LIBA/2125075.3

Case 1:07-cv-11189-RGS Document 85

Filed 11/18/10 Page 6 of 7

Association upon this Court’s Order compelling the parties to submit to a three-party arbitration.
See Proposed Arbitration Demand, attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Furthermore, arbitration should be compelled because Harvard has brought this motion in
a timely manner. Even before this Court ordered Harvard to be joined as a party, Harvard had
notified the Court (and Biocare) of its intent to seek arbitration if it were to be joined. The Court
granted AsymmetRx’s motion to add Harvard on October 19, and the Amended Complaint was
filed the next day. Biocare filed its Answer and Counterclaim on November 10, raising the
Biocare License Agreement as an affirmative defense and bringing counterclaims which are
based on interpretation of the License Agreement. Counsel for Harvard conferred with counsel
for Biocare on November 11, and was advised on November 17 that Biocare did not assent to the
motion. Upon learning that Biocare did not assent, Harvard has promptly moved to compel
arbitration.
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, Harvard respectfully requests that this Court issue an Order
staying the above-captioned proceedings, and compelling the parties to submit to a three-party
arbitration.

6
LIBA/2125075.3

Case 1:07-cv-11189-RGS Document 85

Filed 11/18/10 Page 7 of 7

Respectfully submitted,
PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD
COLLEGE
By its Attorneys,
/s/ Daryl L. Wiesen
Daryl L. Wiesen (BBO# 634827)
Yvonne W. Chan (BBO# 669223)
GOODWIN PROCTER LLP
53 State Street
Boston, MA 02109
Telephone: 617.570.1000
Facsimile: 617.570.1231
dwiesen@goodwinprocter.com
Dated: November 18, 2010

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I, Daryl L. Wiesen, hereby certify that this document was filed through the ECF system
and will be sent electronically to the registered participants as identified on the Notice of
Electronic Filing (NEF) and paper copies will be sent to those indicated as non registered
participants on November 18, 2010.
/s/ Daryl L. Wiesen
Daryl L. Wiesen

7
LIBA/2125075.3

