UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Plaintiff,
Case No. 06-CR-320

vs.
DAVID R. OLOFSON,
Defendant.

DEFENDANT’S POST-EVIDENTIARY HEARING MEMORANDUM IN
SUPPORT OF MOTION TO SUPPRESS STATEMENT
I.
INTRODUCTION
David R. Olofson, by counsel, asks this Court to suppress the statement
he provided law enforcement on July 19, 2006. Olofson argues that he was subjected
to custodial interrogation when he provided this statement but that he was not
advised of his Miranda rights.
II.
BACKGROUND
On June 1, 2007, an evidentiary hearing was held regarding the
defendant’s motion to suppress. Testifying on behalf of the government were

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES
OF WISCONSIN, INC.

Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 1 of 12 Document 55

Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Firearms and Tobacco Agent Jody Keeku and Berlin
Police Officer Georgia Trochinski. Olofson testified on his own behalf.
A search warrant was issued by United States Magistrate Judge Patricia
Gorence on July 18, 2006, which authorized law enforcement to search Olofson’s
residence at 197 East Monroe Street in Berlin, Wisconsin for evidence that he
possessed a machine gun and that he manufactured and distributed firearms
without a license. The search warrant was the result of an investigation in which
law enforcement was told by Robert Kiernicki that he received an automatic firearm
from Olofson earlier in 2006. Agent Keeku testified that, based on Kiernicki’s
statement and because possession of an automatic firearm violates federal law, there
was probable cause to arrest Olofson for possessing an automatic firearm when the
agents executed the search warrant.
On July 19, law enforcement executed the warrant at 11 a.m.
Accompanying Keeku were twenty other federal and local officers, including the
Green Lake County Sheriff’s Department swat team.
Agent Keeku said that after knocking and announcing their presence,
the swat team made a “dynamic entry” into the residence. A dynamic entry is a
forced entry into a residence when no one answers the door. Agent Keeku testified
that the swat team wears tactical vests, knee pads, and helmets and that all members

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES

2
OF WISCONSIN, INC.
Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 2 of 12 Document 55

of the swat team were armed and had their guns drawn as they entered the
residence.
Olofson met the officers at the door. Agent Keeku testified that law
enforcement told Olofson that they had a warrant to search the residence and “took
him into custody.” (Ev. Hrg. Tr. at p. 8). By “custody,” Agent Keeku testified, she
meant that the officers secured and handcuffed Olofson.
Also present in the residence were Olofson’s friend Everett Eastman
and Olofson’s two children – ages four and seven. Eastman was also handcuffed
and placed in custody and the children were placed in Officer Trochinski’s squad
car. Meanwhile, Olofson and Eastman were placed in separate squad cars.
About fifteen minutes after law enforcement arrived at the residence,
Agent Keeku first approached Olofson in the squad car and told him that the officers
had a warrant to search his residence, that law enforcement was interested in
speaking with him, and asked if he would accompany the officers to the Berlin
Police Department. Although Agent Keeku advised Olofson that he was not under
arrest, she told him that he could not return to his residence until the search was
completed. Olofson agreed to speak with the officers at the police station.
Meanwhile, Keeku testified, two other ATF agents took Olofson’s two
children “into their custody” and walked them to Eastman’s residence one block
away from Olofson’s residence. (Ev. Hrg. Tr. at p. 11). Olofson had told the agents

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES

3
OF WISCONSIN, INC.
Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 3 of 12 Document 55

that the children could stay with a neighbor while officers searched the house.
Agent Keeku also completed a statement for Olofson to sign indicating that Eastman
could watch his children until Olofson’s wife returned home later in the day.
Olofson agreed to sign the statement.
Olofson was then moved from a squad car into an unmarked police van
with Keeku and Trochinski.

Keeku was in the back seat with Olofson while

Trochinski drove. Olofson was not handcuffed at this time. In total, Olofson was
handcuffed for about twenty minutes. The officers drove Olofson to the Berlin
Police Department, which is about five blocks from Olofson’s residence. Once at the
police station, the officers led Olofson to Trochinski’s office. Officer Trochinski said
her office is about eight feet by ten feet. There are no windows to the outside.
Officer Trochinski said her office is in the “secure” area of the police department and
that Olofson could not have left the building without an officer opening a door for
him.
Once in Trochinski’s office, Agent Keeku again told Olofson that he
could not return to his residence until the search warrant was executed, but that he
was not under arrest and that he could leave at any time. Agent Keeku said Olofson
understood her comments but agreed to stay and speak with the officers. Keeku
testified that Olofson might have asked later during the interview if he could return
to his residence and she said not until the search was completed. Keeku testified

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES

4
OF WISCONSIN, INC.
Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 4 of 12 Document 55

that she called one of the officers executing the warrant several times during the
afternoon to find out if the search was complete. Each time, she advised Olofson
that he could return home until the search was over.
The officers then questioned Olofson regarding the firearms offenses
that were the subject of the search warrant. The interview lasted from 1 p.m. to
about 4:45 p.m. Olofson was allowed to use the bathroom. To get to the bathroom,
Trochinski had to show Olofson to the back of the police station and open a locked
door between her office and the bathroom. During the interview at the police
station, Keeku and Trochinski were armed but their weapons were not drawn.
Olofson was never advised of his Miranda rights.
Keeku testified that after the interview was over and she verified that
the search was completed, Olofson walked home. Olofson, however, testified that
Officer Trochinski drove him home. And Officer Trochinski testified that she could
not remember whether she drove Olofson back to his home.

III.
ARGUMENT
As noted above, Olofson argues that he was subjected to custodial
interrogation, but not advised of his Miranda rights, when he was questioned

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES

5
OF WISCONSIN, INC.
Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 5 of 12 Document 55

regarding his knowledge of automatic firearms. His statement should therefore be
suppressed.
A.

Custodial Interrogation

A suspect subjected to custodial interrogation must be advised of his
Miranda rights before the statement is given for it to be admissible as evidence
against the suspect. Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436, 444 (1966).
1.

Interrogation

A suspect is “interrogated” when he is subject to express questioning
or its functional equivalent. Rhode Island v. Innis, 446 U.S. 291, 300-01 (1980). The
functional equivalent of express questioning includes words or actions on the part
of police that the police should know are reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating
response from the suspect. Id. at 300-01.
Olofson was “interrogated” when he was asked at the police station
about his participation in the firearms offenses that were the subject of the search
warrant. Specifically, Olofson was asked whether he knew how to change a semiautomatic weapon into an automatic weapon. This question was reasonably likely
to lead to an incriminating response given that Olofson was suspected of possessing
and transferring an automatic firearm and a search warrant had been issued for
Olofson’s residence allowing law enforcement to search the home for evidence of
these crimes.

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES

6
OF WISCONSIN, INC.
Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 6 of 12 Document 55

2.

Custody

A person is in “custody” when his movement is constrained to a degree
comparable to a formal arrest. United States v. Yusuff, 96 F.3d 982, 987 (7th Cir. 1996).
To determine whether a suspect is in custody, the Court must assess the objective
circumstances of the situation from the perspective of a reasonable person in the
suspect’s position. Berkemer v. McCarty, 468 U.S. 420, 442 (1984).
The Court should consider the totality of circumstances when making
this determination.

California v. Beheler, 463 U.S. 1121, 1125 (1983).

Relevant

considerations when determining the totality of circumstances are: 1) whether the
encounter occurred in a public place; 2) whether the suspect consented to speak with
the officers; 3) whether the officers informed the individual that he was not under
arrest; 4) whether the individual was moved to another area; 5) whether there was
a threatening presence of several officers and a display of weapons or physical force;
6) whether the officers deprived the defendant of documents he needed to continue
on his way; and 7) whether the officers’ tone of voice was such that their requests
would likely be obeyed. United States v. Barker, 467 F.3d 625, 629 (7th Cir. 2006).
Here, the custodial nature of Olofson’s encounter with law enforcement
was established from the beginning when twenty local police officers and federal
agents, including a fully armored swat team with guns draw, descended upon
Olofson’s residence to execute the search warrant. Olofson was immediately placed

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES

7
OF WISCONSIN, INC.
Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 7 of 12 Document 55

in handcuffs and told to sit in a police squad car. Or, in the words of Agent Keeku,
the officers “took him into custody.” (Ev. Hrg. Tr. at p. 8).
The coercive nature of the encounter continued when Olofson’s
children were seized by police officers, escorted to a neighbor’s house, and Olofson
was directed to sign a release indicating that he allowed law enforcement to place
his children with a neighbor while the search warrant was executed. Agent Keeku
added to the custodial nature of the situation when she told Olofson that he could
not return to his house until the search warrant was executed.
Thus, by the time Olofson was asked whether he would accompany the
officers to the police station for questioning regarding the firearms charges, an
armed swat team had invaded Olofson’s home, he had been placed in handcuffs and
escorted to the back of a squad car, and his four- and seven-year-old children had
been removed from his custody and placed with a neighbor on the orders of law
enforcement. Given these circumstances, a reasonable person would not have felt
free to decline the officers’ request to accompany them to the police station for
questioning.
Moreover, the coercive nature of the environment was exacerbated at
the police station. Although the handcuffs were removed and Olofson was told he
was not under arrest and free to leave, he was placed in a small and enclosed office
in the secure area of the Berlin Police Department. He could not leave the building

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES

8
OF WISCONSIN, INC.
Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 8 of 12 Document 55

unless an officer unlocked the door to let him out. And even when he asked to use
the restroom, Officer Trochinski had to accompany him to unlock the door between
her office and the restroom. Further, he was reminded that he was not allowed to
return home until the search warrant was executed. This was reinforced several
times during the three-hour interview when Agent Keeko telephoned the officers
at Olofson’s house to learn whether the search was complete. When she was told
that the search was not finished, she repeated to Olofson that he could not return
home.
To summarize the factors to determine whether a suspect was in
“custody,” the encounter with Olofson did not occur in a public place, it occurred
in the secure area of the police station. Although Olofson consented to speak with
the officers, he did so only after a swat team entered his house with their guns
drawn, after he was handcuffed and placed in a squad car, and after his children
were taken from his custody and removed from his house. Although the officers
informed Olofson that he was not under arrest, he was told that he could not return
to his residence until the warrant was executed. And the officers needed nearly six
hours to execute the warrant. Olofson was removed from his residence and driven
to the police station in a law enforcement vehicle by Officer Trochinski. Finally,
there was an inordinately threatening presence of officers and a display of force
given that 20 officers were on hand to execute the warrant and an armed swat team

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES

9
OF WISCONSIN, INC.
Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 9 of 12 Document 55

was utilized. Thus, the factors outlined by the Supreme Court in Beheler warrant a
finding that Olofson was in custody when he made his statement at the Berlin Police
Station.
This case is similar to the settings considered “custodial” by the Seventh
and Eighth circuit courts of appeals. In Sprosty v. Buchler, 79 F.3d 635 (7th Cir. 1996),
the Seventh Circuit held that a suspect was in “custody” when police executed a
search warrant at the defendant’s home. Although the court acknowledged that
briefly detaining a suspect while a search warrant is executed does not, without
more, amount to “custody” for purposes of Miranda, special circumstances were
present. Id. at 642. For example, the police surrounded the suspect’s car when they
arrived to execute the warrant, the officers blocked the driveway from his car to the
street, and escorted the suspect inside. And while four of the officers executed the
warrant, an armed and uniformed officer remained with the suspect to guard him.
The court also observed that the search lasted three hours and the suspect was
repeatedly asked to reveal where incriminating photographs were located during
that three-hour period. Id.
In many respects, the case at bar presents a more custodial setting given
that twenty officers were on the scene – including a swat team. Further, Olofson
was handcuffed, placed in a squad car and driven to the police station for
questioning, and was repeatedly told that he could not return to his residence until

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES

10
OF WISCONSIN, INC.
Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 10 of 12 Document 55

the search was completed. But the similarity between this case and Sprosty is that
they are examples of cases where the coercive atmosphere created by law
enforcement overcomes the general rule that briefly detaining a suspect while a
search warrant is executed does not normally amount to custody.
In United States v. Hanson, 237 F.3d 961 (8th Cir. 2001), the Eighth Circuit
held that a suspect was in custody when agents appeared at the suspect’s door and
asked him to accompany them to a police station to discuss an arson investigation.
At the station, the suspect made incriminating statements and was not advised of
his Miranda rights. In finding the setting custodial, the court noted that the suspect
did not initiate contact with the agents and traveled to the police station in the back
seat of a law enforcement vehicle. Id. at 965. The fact that the suspect was told he
was not under arrest and was free to leave was obviated by the fact that he was
dependent upon the officers to find his way out of the building and back to his home
and he was interviewed for three hours. Id.
Similarly, although Olofson was told that he was not under arrest and
was free to leave, he was dependent on the officers to unlock the doors to the secure
area of the police station. He was also dependent on the officers to give him
permission to return to his home. Like Hanson, the officers’ perfunctory reassurances
that Olofson was not in custody and was free to leave did not diminish the coercive
nature of the environment at the police station.

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES

11
OF WISCONSIN, INC.
Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 11 of 12 Document 55

CONCLUSION
Olofson was subjected to custodial interrogation when he was
interrogated by Agent Keeku and Officer Trochinski at the Berlin Police Department
on July 19, 2007. Because he was not advised of his Miranda rights before this
interview, the statements must be suppressed.
Dated at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, June 15, 2007.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/ Brian P. Mullins
Brian P. Mullins, Bar # 1026891
Counsel for David Olofson
F EDERAL D EFENDER S ERVICES
OF W ISCONSIN, INC.
517 E. Wisconsin Avenue, Room 182
Milwaukee, WI 53202
Tel: 414-221-9900
Fax: 414-221-9901
brian_mullins@fd.org

FEDERAL DEFENDER SERVICES

12
OF WISCONSIN, INC.
Case 2:06-cr-00320-CNC Filed 06/15/07 Page 12 of 12 Document 55

