Case 1:08-cv-00077-CAP Document 169 Filed 12/23/09 Page 1 of 22

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT bem va
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA FEE Gene ser

 

ATLANTA DIVISION USDE Aces
DEC 23 2009
of. " Gierk
THOMAS HAYDEN BARNES, ORI GINA ee
Plaintiff,
v. CASE NO.
RONALD M. ZACCARI, et al., 1:08-cv-00077-CAP
Defendants. CONFIDENT! AL

AFFIDAVIT OF LEAH MCMILLAN

PERSONALLY appeared before me, the undersigned attesting officer, duly
authorized by law to administer oaths, LEAH MCMILLAN, who upon being duly

sworn, testifies, deposes and states as follows:

1.

My name is Leah McMillan. I am sui juris and competent to testify. I give
this Affidavit as evidence in the above-styled matter and for any other lawful
purpose.

2.

Lam a licensed psychotherapist. I am currently employed as a staff

counselor at the Valdosta State University Counseling Center and as a consultant

with Child and Family Guidance of Georgia. As a staff counselor at Valdosta State
Case 1:08-cv-00077-CAP Document 169 Filed 12/23/09 Page 2 of 22

University ("VSU"), my job duties involve providing outpatient psychotherapy to

individuals and couples. I average a caseload of approximately fifty clients and

conduct roughly 250 hours worth of therapy per semester at the Counseling Center.
3.

I was Plaintiff's psychotherapist while he attended VSU. | first started
seeing Plaintiff on September 9, 2005. 1 saw Plaintiff in person four times during
the fall of 2005. Plaintiff left VSU in December 2005, but returned in February
2007. Plaintiff recommenced therapy sessions with me on February 5, 2007, and I
saw him in person nine times during the spring semester.

4.
I believe that Plaintiff and I had a positive professional relationship.
5.

While I was Plaintiffs counselor, I had no knowledge of his having any
history of violence towards others. At no time did I observe any violent or
threatening behavior from Plaintiff.

6.

At the beginning of our counseling relationship, Plaintiff provided me with
some notes he had written about himself. (See Plaintiff's notes, attached as Ex. 1).
Some of the things referenced in Plaintiff's notes I found concerning, so I talked

with Plaintiff regarding my concerns.
Case 1:08-cv-00077-CAP Document 169 Filed 12/23/09 Page 3 of 22

7,

One of the things referenced by Plaintiff in his notes was that he had
previously engaged in some self-directed violence when he was fifteen years old.
However, I never witnessed Plaintiff exhibit, nor did he ever acknowledge, any
current desires to harm himself. Throughout our therapeutic relationship, I asked
Plaintiff whether he was having any self-destructive thoughts. Plaintiff denied all
such inquiries.

8.

During Plaintiff's first therapy session with me on September 9, 2005,
Plaintiff told me that he previously had panic attacks. Plaintiff stated that it had
been seventeen months since he had a full blown panic attack, but he felt that the
panic attacks may be coming back. Plaintiff told me that he had previously been
diagnosed with depression, anxiety, and "ADD." Plaintiff told me that he was
taking the antidepressant medication "Lexapro."

9.

On February 5, 2007, during his first counseling session with me upon his
return to VSU, Plaintiff stated he was having some anxiety issues but that his panic
attacks had decreased. Plaintiff stated that he was continuing his medications with
his psychiatrist back home-Dr. Kevin Winders. Plaintiff also told me that he was

having no suicidal or homicidal ideations, attempts, or plans.
Case 1:08-cv-00077-CAP Document 169 Filed 12/23/09 Page 4 of 22

10.

Sometime after Plaintiff's return to VSU in February 2007, I started having
concerns that Plaintiff needed an increase or change in medication because he
appeared to be having mood swings. As a result, on March 2, 2007, I called
Plaintiff' s psychiatrist Dr. Kevin Winders to see if Dr. Winders would re-evaluate
him regarding a possible shift in diagnosis. I was only able to speak with a
member of Dr. Winders' staff on March 2, 2007, but eventually got through to him
on March 16, 2007. In our discussion on March 16, 2007, Dr. Winders and I
discussed Plaintiff's treatment plan and discussed my concerns regarding a
potential differential diagnosis.

11.

The first time I had any knowledge that Plaintiff was opposed to the
construction of a parking deck on the VSU campus was on April 20, 2007. On this
date, Dr. John Grotgen--the Associate Director at the Counseling Center-came to
me and said that he had just had a telephone conversation with VSU Police Major
Ann Farmer. Dr. Grotgen told me that according to Major Farmer, Plaintiff had
become obsessed with a parking deck at VSU to the point of intimidating and
threatening President Ronald Zaccari. Dr. Grotgen stated that Major Farmer
explained to him that President Zaccari felt threatened, was concerned about the

safety of the University, and had personal security following him on account of
Case 1:08-cv-00077-CAP Document 169 Filed 12/23/09 Page 5 of 22

Plaintiff. Dr. Grotgen-who is second in command at the Counseling Center and a
supervisor to me-instructed me to call Major Farmer.
12.

I then proceeded to call Major Farmer, who told me she knew from Dr.
Grotgen that Plaintiff was a Counseling Center client and was seeing me. Major
Farmer explained to me that she had previously been in a meeting with President
Zaccari where he stated that he felt threatened by Plaintiff as a result of Plaintiff's
reaction to the construction of a parking deck at VSU. Major Farmer stated to me
that she wanted to know if there was anything to indicate that Plaintiff was a threat
to himself or anyone else. In response to Major Farmer's inquiry, | told her that I
had no knowledge that Plaintiff was upset about the construction of a parking deck
at VSU. I described to Major Farmer the current behaviors that I had seen Plaintiff
exhibit--grandiose thinking, narcissism at times, manic behavior at times, the
tendency to become obsessed with situations, and being paranoid at times. I told
Major Farmer that in addition to seeing me, Plaintiff was also seeing a psychiatrist.
I then advised Major Farmer that although I had some concerns for Plaintiff in
relation to his exhibiting these current behaviors, I did not see any evidence that
Plaintiff was a threat to harm either himself or anyone else. At no time did I

discuss my treatment of Plaintiff with Major Farmer.
Case 1:08-cv-00077-CAP Document 169 Filed 12/23/09 Page 6 of 22

13.

I did not share any information regarding Plaintiff to Major Farmer out of

retaliation for Plaintiff's opposition to the construction of a parking deck at VSU.
14.

I provided the aforementioned information regarding Plaintiff to Major
Farmer out of good faith and for several reasons. First, I believed that for Major
Farmer to best understand my professional opinion that Plaintiff was not a threat to
harm President Zaccari or anyone else, she needed context as to why I felt the way
I did. This is why I explained to her what Plaintiff's current behaviors were-all
of which I believed to be non-threatening-and that he was seeing a Psychiatrist.
Secondly, I provided the foregoing information to Major Farmer because I was
concerned for Plaintiff's safety. Major Farmer's phone call to the Counseling
Center came four days after the shootings at Virginia Tech and I wanted Major
Farmer to understand that I had never seen that type of behavior from Plaintiff. I
did not want the police snatching Plaintiff out of his dorm room or for anyone to
go after Plaintiff out of fear that he posed a threat similar to that of the Virginia
Tech shooter.

15.
Although I did not believe Plaintiff was a threat to harm either President

Zaccari or anyone else, [ was concerned that the person second in command at
Case 1:08-cv-00077-CAP Document 169 Filed 12/23/09 Page 7 of 22

VSU Police Department-Major Farmer-was calling the Counseling Center to
investigate whether Plaintiff was a threat. Moreover, at the time of my telephone
call with Major Farmer as described herein, I did not have the opportunity to speak
with Plaintiff in order to assess the situation. Therefore, I called Plaintiff after
speaking with Major Farmer in order to hear how he was doing. Plaintiff told me
he felt fine and apologized for having missed his last appointment. We then
scheduled his next appointment for April 26, 2007, at 11:00 a.m.

16.

Around lunch time on April 24, 2007, I was summoned to President
Zaccari's office. The only people present were President Zaccari and I. President
Zaccari told me he knew that I had previously spoken with Major Farmer.
President Zaccari told me that he was very concerned about Plaintiff and President
Zaccari was visibly shaken. President Zaccari stated that he had security following
him and that he was concerned for himself and the campus. President Zaccari
stated that Plaintiff had made indirect threats to him. In particular, President
Zaccari stated that Plaintiff had posted something on Facebook regarding a
memorial site and a piece regarding the shooter at Virginia Tech. President
Zaccari referenced that he had previously met with Plaintiff and Dean Russ Mast
where Plaintiff issued an apology, but thereafter continued with his

communications and blog. President Zaccari also told me that Plaintiff had
Case 1:08-cv-00077-CAP Document 169 Filed 12/23/09 Page 8 of 22

contacted numerous people across the State who were concerned about Plaintiff's
behavior.
17.

After listening to President Zaccari talk and witnessing his being visibly
shaken, I explained to him the current behaviors I had seen Plaintiff exhibit-
grandiose thinking, narcissism at times, manic behavior at times, the tendency to
become obsessed with situations, and being paranoid at times. I told President
Zaccari that in addition to seeing me, Plaintiff was also seeing a Psychiatrist with
whom I had already been in contact with regarding a possible re-evaluation and a
possible medication change to address Plaintiff's current behaviors. I then advised
President Zaccari that although I had some concerns for Plaintiff im relation to his
having exhibited these current behaviors, I did not see any evidence that Plaintiff
was a threat to harm President Zaccari or anyone else. At no time did I discuss my
treatment of Plaintiff with President Zaccari.

18.

I did not share any information regarding Plaintiff to President Zaccari out

of retaliation for Plaintiff's opposition to the construction of a parking deck at

VSU.
Case 1:08-cv-00077-CAP Document 169 Filed 12/23/09 Page 9 of 22

19.

I provided the aforementioned information regarding Plaintiff to President
Zaccari out of good faith and for several reasons. First, I believed that for
President Zaccari to best understand my professional opinion that Plaintiff was not
a threat to harm him or anyone else, he needed context as to why I felt the way I
did. Although I did not believe Plaintiff was a threat, President Zaccari appeared
to believe he was. Therefore, in an attempt to allay President Zaccari's fears, I
explained what Plaintiff's current behaviors were--all of which I believed to be
non-threatening. I also felt that letting President Zaccari know Plaintiff was seeing
a psychiatrist in addition to me, and that I been in contact with Plaintiff's
Psychiatrist regarding a re-evaluation and a possible medication change to address
his current behaviors, would further alleviate any fears President Zaccari might
have that Plaintiff somehow posed a threat.

20.

Additionally, my concern for Plaintiff's safety played a large role in my
having communicated the foregoing to President Zaccari on April 24, 2007. The
conversation I had with President Zaccari took place shortly after the shootings at
Virginia Tech. I therefore felt the need to communicate to President Zaccari that

Plaintiff did not pose a similar threat. I did not want the police snatching Plaintiff
Case 1:08-cv-00077-CAP Document 169 Filed 12/23/09 Page 10 of 22

out of his dorm room or for anyone going after Plaintiff out of fear that he posed a
threat similar to that of the Virginia Tech shooter.
21.

President Zaccari did not instruct me to schedule an appointment with
Plaintiff on April 26, 2007. At no time was I directed or tasked to see Plaintiff by
President Zaccari. Similarly, at no time was I asked to acquire information about
Plaintiff for President Zaccari. Stating further, at no time was I directed or tasked
by President Zaccari to seek out Plaintiff and ask specific questions regarding
whether Plaintiff was feeling suicidal or was experiencing any problems.

22.

On April 26, 2007, I was summoned to President Zaccari's office for a
second time. Dr. Victor Morgan and Dr. Kurt Keppler were also in attendance.
President Zaccari appeared very concerned about Plaintiff and communicated to
the group that he felt personally threatened. President Zaccari showed us various
documents which he claimed Plaintiff had posted on Facebook. President Zaccari
expressed he felt threatened by these documents.

23.

On April 26, 2007, prior to the meeting I was summoned to in President

Zaccari's office, VSU Dean of Students Russ Mast and President Zaccari called me

to see whether Plaintiff had made his appointment that day. I told both President

10
