Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 12 Filed 11/09/11 Page 1 of 12

WALTER L. WAGNER Uso Tb) EO
532 N 700 E JO. UO ERIC] COURT
Payson, Utah 84651 2 NOV-9 Pt: Ob
retlawdad@hotmail.com pine
808-443-6344 . FRICT OF UTAH
DEPUTY CLERK 7

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

DISTRICT OF UTAH

 

WALTER L. WAGNER, Case: 2:11cvo0784 (J

Plaintiff AFFIDAVIT OF WALTER L.
WAGNER IN SUPPORT OF

vs. MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY
INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

PRESTON MICHIE, KENNETH
FRANCIK, LESLIE COBOS, MARK
ROBINSON, ANNETTE EMERSON
STEVE BRYANT, WORLD BOTANICAL
GARDENS, INC. (WBGI),

Hon. Brooke C. Wells

Defendants

ee ee el cet et eel i al tl ali tli ali atl

 

AFFIDAVIT OF WALTER L. WAGNER IN SUPPORT OF MOTION FOR
PRELIMINARY INJUNCTIVE RELIEF
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 12 Filed 11/09/11 Page 2 of 12

|, Walter L. Wagner, affirm state and declare under penalty of perjury of
the law of the State of Utah as follows:
1. The allegations of the First Amended Complaint are true of my own
knowledge unless expressed as based on information or belief.

Fraudulent Publication of "Indictment"

2. In 2008 an indictment was issued in Hawaii naming myself (and my wife)
and falsely asserting | had engaged in felony attempted theft and identity theft.
The indictment was based entirely upon lies told by defendant Kenneth Francik
to a grand jury in Hilo, Big Island, Hawaii for the purpose of furthering a smear
campaign he had engaged in against myself and my wife as the founders of
WBGI.
3. The gist of his lies to the grand jury were to the effect that my wife and |
had signed a WBGI promissory note while no longer WBGI officers, and hence
such signature was an attempted theft of WBGI monies, and an "identity theft"
of the title of being a WBGI officer. The promissory note had been signed on
January 1, 2004 and was the subject of civil litigation in which defendant Francik
and | were both then engaged (and which is currently pending before the
appellate court of Hawaii).
4. In fact, at the time of signing of the promissory note, my wife and |

remained as the WBGI officers, which positions we had obtained when we

2

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 12 Filed 11/09/11 Page 3 of 12

founded the company in 1995, and when we re-incorporated in Nevada in 2001.
No effort anywhere had been made to remove us as officers prior to January 1,
2004 when we signed that promissory note (the last in an annual series of nine
such notes), and we remained listed as the WBGI officers with the Nevada
department of corporations through and until at least September 2, 2004. On
September 2, 2004 defendant Francik, Dan Perkins and other board members
conducted a telephone board meeting and voted to remove myself and Linda
Wagner as WBGI officers, and to replace us with defendants Francik and
Emerson. Those facts were likewise known to defendant Francik. (The
promissory note in question deferred an already-existing WBGI obligation that
had come into existence on January 1, 2003, deferring payment thereon for a
period of ten years. The obligation was for payment of salary to myself at the
standard rate of the previous decade for services performed.)

5. Defendant Francik had previously attempted to avoid payment on that
obligation in the civil action then pending by likewise fraudulently. asserting that
he, not |, was the proper person to sign such obligations, notwithstanding the
fact that for most of the prior decade he'd had no involvement with the company

(and was not even a shareholder until 1999).

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 12 Filed 11/09/11 Page 4 of 12

6. After these facts were fully detailed, the prosecution declined to timely act
within the statutory period, and the indictment was dismissed in its entirety circa
October 2010 for failure to prosecute.

7. Notwithstanding the dismissal of the indictment, and the lies and fraud
used for issuance of the indictment in the first instance, defendant WBGI,
defendant Francik, defendant Mark Robinson, and others decided to publish the
"indictment" on the WBGI web site for the purpose of further defaming myself
and my wife to my business associates, being the WBGI shareholders (a
privately held corporation which shareholders | enlisted). Accordingly, those
defendants and others published the "indictment" document on the shareholder
section of the WBGI website, even though known to be false and dismissed,
through and until the filing of the complaint herein approximately one year after
the dismissal of the "indictment". No explanation that the indictment was
dismissed, or based on lies and fraud, were published along with it, leaving the
false impression that the substance of the "indictment" was valid and that land
my wife had engaged in felony conduct.

Fraudulent Emailing of Defamation

8. As detailed in the complaint, defendant Preston Michie has been emailing
shareholders faisely asserting that | had embezzled or otherwise improperly

diverted WBGI monies that had been destined for construction of a visitor

 

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 12 Filed 11/09/11 Page 5 of 12

center, and hence WBGI had been unable to further its development as
intended.

9. The situation that gave rise to this cover-up of theft of Visitor Center
monies is as follows:

a) Preston Michie joined Kenneth Francik on the WBGI board of directors in
September 2004. At that time, WBGI was raising monies for its intended Visitor
Center, encouraging existing WBGI shareholders to invest additional monies
with the promise that those additional monies would be deposited into a
dedicated Visitor Center account. WBGI raised approximately $220,000 during
that period of time through and until circa January 2005, which monies were
deposited into that dedicated account.

b) Thereafter, circa May 2005 Defendants Francik, Michie and others voted
to initiate litigation against me and others and they began using the Visitor
Center account monies to fund that litigation, completely depleting those funds,
as well as numerous other funds.

c) Unable to replenish the dedicated Visitor Center account funds that had
been depleted, defendants Francik, Michie and others began attempting to
cover-up the missing funds by falsely claiming that | had spent those monies
elsewhere while serving as the WBGI President. In fact, | never had signatory

control over any of those Visitor Center account monies, never authorized their

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 12 Filed 11/09/11 Page 6 of 12

removal, and never approved their usage to fund litigation against myself. |
had, however, been present at the Bank of Hawaii and watched as the Visitor
Center account was opened. | was kept apprised of the account balance by
defendant Annette Emerson, who had signatory control over the account and
had helped open the account, and learned from her that the balance had
reached $220,000 by January 2005 with only approximately $20,000 being used
for obtaining of the Visitor Center special use permit.

d) Louis Pratt is one of the WBGI shareholders, and since he was concerned
about his investment and the lack of construction of the intended Visitor Center,
~he sent an email to defendant Steven Bryant, which email | have read.
Answering on behalf of defendant Bryant was defendant Michie, in which he
falsely asserted that there was never a dedicated Visitor Center account and
that the monies that had been intended for construction of the visitor center had
been unlawfully diverted by myself and spent elsewhere. | have also read Mr.
Michie's email to Mr. Pratt. This attempted cover-up of the theft of the Visitor
Center account funds is highly defamatory of myself in that it ascribes to myself
the theft of those dedicated Visitor Center account funds, when in fact the party
falsely accusing myself was responsible for the theft, in that he served as the
WBGI general counsel overseeing the litigation which consumed the Visitor

Center account funds. A copy of the email from Mr. Pratt to defendant Bryant,

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 12 Filed 11/09/11 Page 7 of 12

and the response from defendant Michie to Mr. Pratt, will be available as
evidence at the hearing of this motion.

Fraudulent Accusation of Mismanagement
10. While serving as WBGI President, and my wife as WBGI
Secretary/Treasurer, we maintained an accurate and up-to-date accounting of
all WBGI shareholders. This was maintained on a dedicated WBGI computer,
and we also had others assist in maintaining its accuracy.
11. Circa June 2004 the computer and the database was placed in the charge
of David Adams who then maintained the accuracy of the database. Mr. Adams
printed out the database in its entirety circa January 2005 shortly before he
resigned, Mr. Adams currently serves as a WalMart store manager in Texas. A
copy of the database will be available as evidence at the hearing of this motion.
12. Mr. Cal Andrus is an early WBGI shareholder and original founder of
WBGI whose name and information was in the WBGI database maintained by
Mr. Adams. At some point, his name and the name of Milton Lunt, another early
WBGI shareholder also in the database maintained by Mr. Adams, were
unlawfully removed from the database by one or more of the defendants.
13. Upon inquiry, those shareholders were then falsely informed that they
were not shareholders. Upon further inquiry, they were falsely informed that the

reason their names were not in the database was because | had maintained

 

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 12 Filed 11/09/11 Page 8 of 12

poor or incomplete records while serving as the WBGI president. That false
accusation is highly defamatory of myself and untrue, as it ascribes the poor
maintenance of WBGI records by the defendants to myself.
Further Fraudulent Defamation on Website

14. In addition to the fraudulently obtained "indictment" on the shareholder
section of the WBGI website, defendants have posted other documents on the
shareholder section of the WBGI website they have obtained by fraud that
falsely impugns the character of me, my wife and others.

15. In that civil action initiated by WBGI against me in 2005 (Hawaii No. 05-1-
0210), my wife and others, defendants used the fraudulently obtained
"indictment" to cause my wife to be arrested and both of us removed from the
Hilo courtroom at the time of the "trial" of that civil action, circa April 2008. This
arrest and removal from the courtroom precluded us from exercising any of our
civil rights to contest the fraudulent accusations being made against us, to give
our own testimony, or to cross-examine witnesses. The "judgment" issued
based entirely on one side's evidence is currently pending review in the
appellate court in SCWC-30133, with an expected reversal based upon WBGI's
fraud in having us arrested and removed from the courtroom based upon the

phony "indictment".

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 12 Filed 11/09/11 Page 9 of 12

16. The false arrest pursuant to the subsequently dismissed "indictment" was
orchestrated by defendant Francik with the collusion of the trial court judge
(Hon. Greg Nakamura), who arranged for the arrest in his courtroom when he
took a short "break" so that it would not be on the record. Defendant Francik's
retained lawfirm (Tsukazaki, Yeh and Moore) has Mr. Tom Yeh as lead
attorney, and who also serves as a judge pro tempore for that trial court judge.
Mr. Yeh was also involved in arranging that false arrest that precluded us from
defending against the false accusations made against us. Both the trial court
judge's and the attorney's conduct is now also under review by the Hawaii
appellate court, as it clearly served to deprive us of our civil right to a trial.

17. As aconsequence of a complete lack of opposition at the "trial" with only
defendant WBGI presenting its false accusations, primarily via the testimony of
defendant Francik and defendant Emerson herein, a "judgment" was issued
against plaintiff herein and his wife. A copy of the petition for review will be
available as evidence at the hearing of this motion.

18. Defendant WBGI, defendant Robinson and others have posted that
"judgment" obtained by the fraud of arresting Linda Wagner at the "trial", and
some of the other documents they filed in that action, in the shareholder section
of the WBGI website along with the fraudulently obtained "indictment", for the

purpose of defaming plaintiff and his wife and to otherwise attempt to give

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 12 Filed 11/09/11 Page 10 of 12

credence to the fraudulently obtained "indictment" and otherwise attempt to
show that plaintiff herein somehow managed to unlawfully take WBGI monies,
when the facts are exactly the opposite; i.e. that plaintiff Wagner is still owed
considerable monies he loaned to WBGI which legal action is pending in Hawaii
appellate court as well, and the monies stolen from the WBGi Visitor Center
Account were removed by one or more of the defendants herein.

19. Similarly, defendants fraudulently obtained a "judgment" on the same
complaint that they had concurrently filed in Nevada. The "judgment" was
obtained by the lies of defendant Francik and others to that trial court, as will be
detailed more fully at the hearing of this motion. That "judgment" is likewise
posted on the shareholder section of the WBGI! website.

Background in Fraud Investigation

20. In addition to my work in founding the World Botanical Gardens, | am
involved in many other arenas. Currently | am involved in the insurance
industry, which requires state licensing, and | am accordingly licensed in many
states including Utah. Part of the requirements for maintaining insurance
appointments is the requirement for completion of coursework in detecting
frauds. This includes detecting frauds by beneficiaries, by insurance producers
or their employees, by providers or their employees, or numerous other areas

wherein frauds might arise. This also requires extensive testing following

10

 

 
