Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 24 Filed 12/02/11 Page 1 of 16

WALTER L. WAGNER
532 N 700 E

Payson, Utah 84651
retlawdad @ hotmail.com
808-443-6344

FILED
U.S. DISTRICT COURT

2011 DEC -2 P 1:50
DISTRICT OF UTAH

BY Sees eeneemgensntin
DEPUTY CLERK

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

DISTRICT OF UTAH

 

WALTER L. WAGNER,
Plaintiff
VS.

PRESTON MICHIE, KENNETH
FRANCIK, LESLIE COBOS, MARK
ROBINSON, ANNETTE EMERSON
STEVE BRYANT, WORLD BOTANICAL
GARDENS, INC. (WBG)),

Defendants

eee ee ee ees ees we

Case: 2:11cv00784

SUPPLEMENTAL
AFFIDAVIT OF WALTER L.
WAGNER IN SUPPORT OF
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY
INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

Hon. Clark Waddoups/Trial
Hon. Paul Warner/Pre-Trial

 

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 24 Filed 12/02/11 Page 2 of 16

SUPPLEMENTAL AFFIDAVIT OF WALTER L. WAGNER IN SUPPORT OF
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTIVE RELIEF
EEL NNARY INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

|, Walter L. Wagner, affirm state and declare under penalty of perjury of
the laws of the State of Utah as follows:
1. As referenced briefly by Mr. Dan Perkins in his sworn affidavit, since
resuming my work in Utah in 2008 after relocating back to Utah from Hawai'i
that year, | have had a number of professional positions that require FBI
background checks, fingerprinting, State licensing, and other aspects of
professional employment.
2. Beginning in 2009 | was privileged to work in conjunction with the
federal Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in_ their
implementation of the Healthcare Reform Act ("Obamacare") as it pertains to
the regulations for the Medicare population. Much of this work was in a
Personal Health Information (PHI) compliant facility requiring security
clearance for entrance. This work is presently (2011) ongoing, where | work
with many seniors from many diverse backgrounds. Part of the work requires
extensive training on detection of fraud in all aspects of the implementation of
Parts A, B, C, and D of the CMS regulations. As mentioned previously, |
have passed all of the requisite coursework on such fraud detection. Further,

allied work also requires completion of various Anti-Money-Laundering

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 24 Filed 12/02/11 Page 3 of 16

coursework to prevent criminal fraud, which testing | have also successfully
completed with high scores.

3. Beginning in 2010 and through to the second half of that year, | was
also privileged to work with the US Census Bureau on preparation: of the
2010 US Census. Again, this work was in a secured facility for protection of
personal information, and required FBI background check, fingerprinting,
professional referral, etc., and involved working with thousands of colleagues
in our secured facility in South Jordan. My work involved computer-assisted
CFU work to help insure the most complete, accurate and comprehensive US
Census ever created. Stringent rules were in place to insure the protection of
personal information from fraudulent use. This work was timely submitted to
Congress at the end of 2010, and will be used extensively by numerous
federal, state and local agencies over the next decade, until the 2020
Census.

4. Beginning with the 2008-2009 school year, and continuing to the current
2011-2012 school year, | have been privileged to also serve part-time, at
various Utah secondary public schools, as a classroom instructor. These
positions have been primarily in the teaching of mathematics and science,
and occasionally foreign languages. In that capacity | am frequently called

upon to discipline students whenever | detect fraud, lying or deceit. This

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 24 Filed 12/02/11 Page 4 of 16

discipline can range from reprimand, to parent conference, to administrative
conference, to expulsion (which | have not personally had to experience with
my students). As | mentioned before, | have an extensive and diverse
background for detection of fraud, lying or deceit; and whenever such raises
its ugly head, I'll point it out.
|
FRAUDULENTLY OBTAINED "INDICTMENT"

`5. Mr. Holden falsely states in his Reply Memorandum in support of his
motion to dismiss that the fraudulently obtained "indictment" was "based on
Plaintiff's misappropriation of funds."" Nothing could be further from the truth,
and this appears to be an intentional lie by Mr. Holden, for which this Court
might wish to consider sanctions, including but not limited to an OSC re
contempt hearing. The fraudulently obtained "indictment" was based entirely
upon the fraudulent claim by defendant Francik that Linda Wagner was no
longer a corporate officer on January 1, 2004 when she signed a corporate
document as a WBGI officer. The charge was "attempted theft" because no

money was transferred, but rather there was an "attempt" to obtain a

 

`Last sentence, bottom of Page 3, of "Defendant World Botanical Gardens, Inc.'s Reply
Memorandum In support of Motion to Dismiss", which falsely reads: "First, the Indictment was
based on Plaintiff's misappropriation of funds."

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 24 Filed 12/02/11 Page 5 of 16

judgment on the Promissory Note', with defendant Francik fraudulently
claiming that Linda Wagner was then no longer an officer and therefore no
longer entitled to have signed that Promissory Note, which he in turn claimed
was `fraudulent' or, in terminology used by his attorney, a `fabrication'.

6. | have gone back and re-read the Transcript of the Grand Jury
proceeding (CR No. 08-1-097, dated February 27, 2008) in which defendant
Francik gave his perjured testimony. The entire transcript is relatively short,
only 22 pages, and only about half being testimony by defendant Francik. It
is very clear that the sole basis of his charge he was fraudulently making was
that Linda Wagner was not a corporate officer on January 1, 2004 when she
signed that Promissory Note deferring for ten years the prior nine-years worth
of accumulated back-pay. There is no mention or allegation of misuse or
misappropriation of any WBGI monies, and indeed, the word
"misappropriation" was not even mentioned in his testimony. A copy of that
Grand Jury transcript will be made available at any forthcoming hearing for

this Courts in camera inspection, should it desire to confirm that the

 

? This "attempt" is ongoing, in the form of Wagner v. WBGI, currently pending in the Hawai'i
appellate court, in which plaintiff Wagner is currently seeking to obtain a judgment based upon
the work he did and evidenced by a series of nine increasingly larger Promissory Notes that had
been signed by the WBGI officers year-by-year each January 1, deferring for ten years the
accumulating obligation.

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 24 Filed 12/02/11 Page 6 of 16

"indictment" was NOT based upon allegations of "Plaintiff's misappropriation
of funds' as falsely claimed by Mr. Holden in his recent filing, but rather solely
upon defendant Francik's fraudulent claim of a fabricated Promissory Note.

7. Defendant Francik went to great lengths to work a fraud on the Grand
Jury. He falsely proclaimed that defendant Emerson had been voted in to
replace Linda Wagner as a corporate officer in 2003. He falsely proclaimed
that the "entire Board' was aware that Annette Emerson had replaced Linda
Wagner as a corporate officer in 2003. Yet his false proclamations to the
Grand Jury were subsequently directly countered by at least three (3) of
those Board(R) members who filed sworn affidavits in Court stating that they
knew Linda Wagner to be a WBGI corporate officer at the time she signed
that January 1, 2004 Promissory Note deferring an existing WBGI financial
obligation for a period of ten years.

8. Further, nowhere in his testimony did he give any of the evidence
available to him that showed Linda Wagner was in fact a proper corporate
officer at the time she deferred that existing obligation, evidence of which he

was well aware. Numerous sworn affidavits (now including Mr. Perkins'

 

> David Adams, Dan Perkins, and Walter Wagner signed sworn affidavits they knew Linda Wagner
was a WBGI corporate officer; the other active Board members at that time were Kenneth Francik,
Annette Emerson, Lanny Neel and Don Miller.

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 24 Filed 12/02/11 Page 7 of 16

affidavit filed herein) showed that the vote to replace Linda Wagner as a
corporate officer took place on September 2, 2004, some eight (8) months
AETER she signed that Promissory Note deferring that existing obligation.
Moreover, all of the written corporate records maintained by the State of
Nevada confirmed that as well, records of which defendant Francik was well-
aware. Specifically, the WBGI minutes of the September 2, 2004 meeting
showed Linda Wagner as having been replaced by vote on that date; and the
Nevada filing submitted by defendant Emerson to the State of Nevada was
also on that date, which is the first document filed removing Linda Wagner as
a corporate officer (she had been one of the Incorporators of WBGI in
Nevada in 2001). Neither defendant Emerson, nor anyone else, ever filed
Nevada _ corporate records showing Linda Wagner being removed as a
corporate officer until September 2, 2004. Defendant Emerson, after election
to the Board, did file two corporate documents in Nevada prior to September
_ 2, 2004. The first one, filed circa March 2004 by defendant Emerson, served
to appoint herself as the Resident Agent for Service of Process for WBGIl, a
non-officer position. The second one, filed circa June 2004 by defendant
Emerson, served to appoint herself to replace Dan Perkins as a corporate
officer (Treasurer), leaving the positions then held by me and Linda Wagner

intact (President and Secretary, respectively). Both of those earlier filings

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 24 Filed 12/02/11 Page 8 of 16

showed defendant Emerson's awareness of the necessity of filing corporate
documents to make corporate changes, and that she did not then (March or
June, 2004) consider herself as having replaced Linda Wagner as a
corporate officer. All of this was very well detailed and documented in the
criminal litigation fraudulently initiated by defendant Francik, including
certified copies of the relevant Nevada documents referenced above.
Moreover, in May 2004 defendant Francik was advised in a letter from the
WBGI attorney at that time as to the proper identity of the WBGI officers.

9. It is because of that extensive background of evidence showing
defendant Francik as having perjured himself before the Grand Jury that the
fraudulently obtained "indictment" was dismissed in 2010. Issue Preclusion
now operates to preclude defendants from proclaiming that my wife and |
were not the WBGI officers on January 1, 2004 when we signed that ninth
Promissory Note deferring for ten years my accumulated back-pay, because
that issue was extensively litigated, and the "indictment" dismissed. In
addition, the preclusive effect of the State of Nevada corporate filings by
defendant Emerson, public records for all to see, likewise serves to preclude
defendants from now in some way claiming that there was in fact any validity

to defendant Francik's fraudulent testimony to the Grand Jury.

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 24 Filed 12/02/11 Page 9 of 16

10. Mr. Holden also references the earlier "finding" by the trial court judge in
Wagner v. WBGI that the Promissory Note was "fabricated". This was based
upon defendant Francik's fraudulent claims as such, and is likewise the
subject of the pending appeal in that case. There was no "fabrication" of the
Promissory Notes. Each year on January 1, the prior year's accumulated
back-pay was tabulated and rolled into another Promissory Note. After nine
years, there were nine such promissory notes. Defendant Francik was
nowhere around at that time, as he was not yet a shareholder for the first 4
such notes, and it was not until after the 9" such note that he began falsely
claiming they were "fabrications". Because he is a cunning and clever liar'
his false claims were initially believed by that judge. However, when he re-
injected the issue two years later, by taking it to the Grand Jury, he was
unable to rely on issue preclusion, as they need actual evidence. So he lied
to them to provide them with evidence. Following two years of litigation of
that issue, i.e. whether or not Linda Wagner fabricated a WBGI Promissory
Note by signing such without corporate authority, that case was dismissed.

Once again, issue preclusion now serves to preclude defendants from

 

* This is not the first time that his lies caught up with him. In a declaration against interest, in May
2004 he confided to me that he had been fired from the Los Angeles Police Department and
prosecuted for lying. Unfortunately, he was not convicted.

 
Case 2:11-cv-00784-CW-PMW Document 24 Filed 12/02/11 Page 10 of 16

claiming the Promissory Note in question was a "fabrication" due to the
subsequent criminal litigation of the issue engendered by defendant Francik's
fraudulent Grand Jury testimony, which resolved the issue favorably to myself
and Linda Wagner.
lI
FALSE ARREST AT THE "TRIAL" INVALIDATES JUDGMENTS

11. Mr. Holden also falsely claims that my departure from the "trial"
courtroom to bail out my wife, after she was whacked in the knee, raises "no
questions about the validity of the Second Hawaii Court Judgment." He
arrogantly asserts: "Plaintiff requested no continuance. Instead, he simply
chose not to attend the trial so he could bail out his wife. Plaintiff's voluntary
absence from trial raises no issues concerning the validity of the Second
Hawaii Court Judgment." | seriously doubt the Hawaii Supreme Court will
concur with Mr. Holden's legal position, not to mention his lack of moral
character he would exhibit towards the needs of his wife.

12. Contrary to Mr. Holden's implicit assertion, Linda Wagner was not
simply accompanying me to the courtroom to hold my hand. She was a

critical key witness, who had been listed in advance as a witness, as well as a

 

" Bottom of Section C, page 5 of "Defendant World Botanical Gardens, Inc.'s Reply Memorandum in
Support of Motion to Dismiss"

10

 
