Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 1 of 12 PageID 135

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA
FORT MYERS DIVISION
GREG W. STAKEY,

CASE NO. 2:05-cv-598-FtM-99DNF

Plaintiff,
v.
AMY STANFORD, individually,
DANIEL SALLS, individually, and
DON HUNTER, as SHERIFF OF
COLLIER COUNTY, Florida,
Defendants.
___________________________________/
DEFENDANT SHERIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
AS TO COUNT III ONLY (AND MEMORANDUM OF LAW)
The Defendant, DON HUNTER, as Sheriff of Collier County, Florida, by and through
undersigned counsel, pursuant to Rule 56(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, files this his
Motion for Summary Judgment as to Count III only (and Memorandum of Law), and as grounds
therefore would state as follows:
The Plaintiff has filed a six count Amended Complaint. The Defendants have filed a joint
Answer and Defenses. The Defendant Sheriff specifically denied the allegation as to Count III of
the Amended Complaint. Count III of the Plaintiff’s Amended Complaint is titled as follows:
“Count III Plaintiff’s Custom, Policy and Practice Claim against Defendant Don
Hunter, as Sheriff of Collier County, Florida.”
Count III of the Plaintiff’s Amended Complaint alleges, in pertinent part, as follows:
1

Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 2 of 12 PageID 136

85.

At all times relevant to this action, Defendant STANFORD was
acting under the direction and control of Defendant DON
HUNTER, as SHERIFF of COLLIER COUNTY, Florida, and
was acting pursuant to either official policy or the practice,
custom, and usage of Defendant DON HUNTER, as SHERIFF
of COLLIER COUNTY, Florida, or pursuant to the lack of the
official customs, policies, and practices, of Defendant DON
HUNTER as SHERIFF of COLLIER COUNTY, Florida,
regarding the requirements of conducting a reasonable
investigation to establish probable cause whether a person fits the
criteria for involuntary civil commitment, pursuant to the
Marchman Act.

86.

Prior to Defendant STANFORD’s unlawful civil commitment of
Plaintiff pursuant to the Marchman Act, it was the widespread and
customary policy and practice of the members of Defendant
COLLIER COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE, including
Defendant Stanford, and others, to not subject persons to socalled field sobriety testing, including but not limited to the
alphabet test, finger dexterity drills, horizontal gaze nystagmus, or
similar tasks that are safe to perform even on persons who are
grossly impaired by alcohol (or drugs), either before or after
taking persons into custody pursuant to the Marchman Act,
thereby leaving the determination of whether there exits (sic)
probable cause that a person fits the criteria for involuntary civil
commitment entirely to the subjective opinion, discretion, and
whim of the officer, in the absence of any objective criteria or
scientific testing whatsoever, including the administration of breath
alcohol testing either before or immediately after a person has
been taken into custody pursuant to the Marchman Act.

87.

Notwithstanding the widespread, regular, and routine use of the
Marchman Act by its employees, Defendant DON HUNTER, as
SHERIFF of COLLIER COUNTY, Florida, failed to adopt
policies, procedures, customs, or controls, and to provide
adequate discipline, training, and supervisionnecessary to prevent
the conduct set forth herein, contrary to the Fourth and
Fourteenth Amendments, and 42 U.S. C § 1983. Defendant
DON HUNTER, as SHERIFF of COLLIER COUNTY,
2

Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 3 of 12 PageID 137

Florida, knew or should have known that without necessary
policies, procedures, customs, or controls in place and designed
to prevent the conduct set forth herein, and without adequate
discipline, training, and supervision, that Plaintiff and others
similarly situated would suffer the deprivation of their
Constitutionalrights. If Defendant DON HUNTER, as SHERIFF
of COLLIER COUNTY, Florida, had implemented procedures
designed to prevent the problems set forth herein, the conduct
complained of would have been prevented.
88.

Prior to Plaintiff’s civil commitment, Defendant Defendant (sic)
DON HUNTER, as SHERIFF of COLLIER COUNTY,
Florida, knew of the widespread conduct by his deputy sheriffs as
set forth herein, and had knowledge of, or had he diligently
exercised his duties, should have had knowledge that said wrongs,
unless otherwise prevented, would result in additional
unconstitutional acts. Defendant DON HUNTER, as SHERIFF
of COLLIER COUNTY, Florida, had the power to prevent or
aid in preventing the commission of said wrongs, could have done
so, and intentionally, knowingly or with deliberate indifference
failed or refused to do so.

89.

Acting under color of state law, and pursuant to official policy,
practice, custom, or usage, Defendant DON HUNTER as
SHERIFF of COLLIER COUNTY, Florida, intentionally,
knowingly, recklessly or with deliberate indifference to the rights
of its residents, failed to correct the matters set forth herein, and
thereby approved or ratified an environment wherein officers
knew and understood that they would not be held accountable for
their unlawful conduct.

Based upon record evidence and the exhibits attached hereto, the undisputed facts
establish that the Defendant Sheriff is entitled to summary judgment in his favor as a matter of law
for the following reasons:

3

Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 4 of 12 PageID 138

The Defendant Sheriff is entitled to summary judgment as there is no
evidence to support a finding that the Defendant Sheriff had a custom,
policy, practice, or procedure that directly caused the Plaintiff’s
constitutional rights to be violated by the co-Defendants as it would relate
to the alleged unlawful civil commitment pursuant to the Marchman Act.
Consequently, even if there is a dispute in the material facts that the
Plaintiff’s constitutional rights were violated by the co-Defendants, the
Defendant Sheriff is still entitled to summary judgment as the Plaintiff
cannot prove that the Defendant Sheriff’s policies directly caused the coDefendants to violate the Plaintiff’s constitutional rights.
WHEREFORE, it is respectfully requested that this Honorable Court grant the Defendant
Sheriff’s Motion for Summary Judgment (and Memorandum of Law).
FURTHER, and in support of this Motion, the Defendant Sheriff would refer this
Honorable Court to the Memorandum of Law attached hereto and by reference made a part
hereof.
STATEMENT OF FACTS
Don Hunter is the Sheriff of Collier County, Florida. At the time the Plaintiff was arrested
and incarcerated in the Monroe County Jail, the Sheriff had in existence certain official policies and
procedures regarding the civil commitment of persons pursuant to Florida’s Marchman Act law.
These policies, which track Florida Statute, are constitutional on their face and would not directly
cause any alleged constitutional violations through adherence thereto by deputies such as Stanford
or Salls. (See Exhibit A.)
Consequently, at this time the record evidence submitted to the Court by the Defendant
demonstrates that the Sheriff’s policies did not directly cause the Plaintiff’s constitutional rights

4

Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 5 of 12 PageID 139

violated as alleged by the Plaintiff in his Complaint. Therefore, even if the Plaintiff’s constitutional
rights were actually violated by the co-Defendants, as alleged by the Plaintiff, the Sheriff is still
entitled to summary judgment.
MEMORANDUM OF LAW
ARGUMENT
The standard of review which must be applied by the Court as contained in Rule 56(c) of
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure reads in pertinent part as follows:
The judgment sought shall be rendered forthwith if the pleadings,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file, together
with the affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter
of law.
In Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317 (1986), the court held that summary judgment
should be entered against:
[A] party who fails to make a showing sufficient to establish the existence
of an element essential to that party’s case, and on which that party will
bear the burden of proof at trial. In such a situation there can be no
genuine issue as to any material fact, since a complete failure of proof
concerning an essential element of the non-moving party’s case necessarily
renders all other facts immaterial. The moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law because the non-moving party has failed to make a
sufficient showing on an essential element of her case with respect to
which she has the burden of proof. (citations and internal quotes omitted.)
If the party seeking summary judgment meets the initial burden of demonstrating the
absence of a genuine issue of material fact, the burden then shifts to the non-moving party, in this
case, the Plaintiff. The plaintiff is then required to come forward with sufficient evidence to rebut
5

Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 6 of 12 PageID 140

the showing with affidavits or other relevant and admissible evidence. See Avirgan v. Hull, 932
F.2d 1572, 1577 (11th Cir.), cert. denied, 112 S.Ct. 913 (1992). It is the non-moving party’s
burden to come forward with evidence on each essential element of his claim sufficient to sustain
a jury verdict. See Earley v. Champion International Corp., 907 F.2d 1077, 1080 (11th Cir.
1990). See also Matsushita Electronic Industrial Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U.S. 574, 587
(1986) [Plaintiff must produce specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue for trial.]. The
Defendant here has met his burden by producing evidence of the official policies of the Defendant
Sheriff that do not authorize or cause constitutional violations to occur as alleged. (See Exhibit A.)
The Plaintiff cannot meet his burden--that this Defendant’s policies directly caused his constitutional
rights to be violated. Furthermore, the Plaintiff can no longer rely upon his mere allegations as
contained in his Amended Complaint to defeat this motion. (See Early and Matsushita, supra.)
42 U.S.C. §1983
It is clear from the Plaintiff’s Amended Complaint that the Defendant Sheriff is being sued
in his official capacity as Sheriff. Consequently, it is well settled that the Sheriff, as a government
entity, is not liable for the actions of his subordinates or employees in a cause of action brought
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. §1983 by operation of the concept of respondeat superior/vicarious liability.
Therefore, there must be evidence of a custom, policy, practice or procedure that provided the
moving force behind, and the cause of, the alleged constitutional violation. There must be evidence
of an affirmative link between the alleged violation and the alleged policy or custom. The Plaintiff
must establish a direct causal connection between a custom or policy, once shown to exist in fact,
6

Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 7 of 12 PageID 141

and the alleged constitutional violation. See Monell v. Dept. of Social Services, 436 U.S. 658
(1978) and Fundiller v. City of Cooper City, 777 F.2d 1436 (11th Cir. 1985).
It is important to understand the distinction between a custom, practice or procedure and
an official policy. In the case of a formal, official policy that authorizes unconstitutional behavior,
a single incident of the unconstitutional behavior by a subordinate of the official policy-making
authority is sufficient to bring a Section 1983 cause of action. See e.g. Monell, supra. However,
the law is more stringent in its requirement of proof in the typical Section 1983 case where the
custom, practice or procedure is not an official promulgated policy and rather is based upon some
other theory that is not directly related to the actual unconstitutional act. Generally, in a case where
the “policy of the governmental entity” is argued to exist through such an informal custom or
practice, a single or isolated incident of a constitutional violation by an employee is insufficient to
establish such an informal custom or practice. See City of Oklahoma v. Tuttle, 471 U.S. 808
(1985).
It is undisputed that the Defendant Sheriff Hunter does not have a policy that would
authorize the unconstitutional civil commitment of a person pursuant to Florida’s Marchman Act
Law.. (See Exhibit A.)
In Board of County Comm’rs of Bryan County, Oklahoma v. Jill Brown, 520 U.S. 397,
117 S.Ct. 1382, 1388-89 (1997), the United States Supreme Court indicated:
As our §1983 municipal liability jurisprudence illustrates, however, it is not
enough for a §1983 plaintiff merely to identify conduct properly
attributable to the municipality. The plaintiff must also demonstrate that,
7

Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 8 of 12 PageID 142

through its deliberate conduct, the municipality was the moving force
behind the injury alleged. That is, a plaintiff must show that the municipal
action was taken with the requisite degree of culpability and must
demonstrate a direct causal link between the municipal action and the
depravation of federal rights.
Where a plaintiff claims that a particular municipal action itself violates
federal law or directs an employee to do so, resolving these issues of fault
and causation is straight- forward. Section 1983 itself contains no stateof-mind requirement independent of that necessary to state a violation of
the underlying right. In any §1983 suit, however, the plaintiff must
establish the state-of-mind of the underlying violation. Accordingly, proof
that a municipality’s legislative body or authorized decision-maker has
intentionally deprived the plaintiff of a federally protected right necessarily
establishes that the municipality acted culpably. Similarly, the conclusion
that the action taken or directed by the municipality or its authorized
decision-maker itself violates federal law will also determine that the
municipal action was the moving force behind the injury of which the
plaintiff complains....
Where a plaintiff claims that the municipality has not directly inflicted an
injury, but nonetheless has caused an employee to do so, rigorous
standards of culpability and causation must be applied to insure that the
municipality is not held liable solely for the actions of its employee....
Claims not involving an allegation that the municipal action itself violated
the law, or directed or authorized the depravation of federal rights, present
much more difficult problems of proof. That a plaintiff has suffered a
depravation of federal rights at the hands of a municipal employee will not
alone permit an inference of municipal culpability and causation; the
plaintiff will simply have shown that the employee acted culpably....
Where a court fails to adhere to rigorous requirements of culpability and
causation, municipal liability collapses into respondeat superior liability.
As we recognized in Monell and have repeatedly reaffirmed, Congress did
not intend municipalities to be held liable unless deliberate action
attributable to the municipality directly caused a depravation of federal
rights.

8

Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 9 of 12 PageID 143

(internal quotes and citations to other cases omitted.)
It is undisputed that the Sheriff as final policy-maker has not promulgated an official policy
that would authorize or cause the constitutional misconduct as alleged. (See Exhibit A.) To
establish the existence of a custom or practice, it is generally necessary to show a persistent and
wide-spread practice of the alleged unconstitutional behavior that is argued to amount to the
practice or custom of the governmental entity. Moreover, knowledge of such customs must be
attributable to the Sheriff in his official capacity as a policy level-making official. Normally, random
acts or isolated incidents are insufficient to establish a custom or practice. See Depew v. City of
St. Mary, 787 F.2d 1496, 1499 (11th Cir. 1986); see also Brook v. Scheib, 813 F.2d 1191 (11th
Cir. 1987); Brown v. City of Fort Lauderdale, 923 F.2d 1474 (11th Cir. 1991).
The Defendant Sheriff has brought forth evidence of his policies, regarding the civil
commitment of persons pursuant to Florida’s Marchman Act. (See Exhibit A.) The evidence
demonstrates that the Plaintiff’s constitutional rights were not violated as a direct result of this
Defendant’s policies. The undisputed facts presented by this Defendant demonstrate that there is
no policy that caused the Plaintiff’s constitutional rights to be violated. Consequently, the Plaintiff
must provide proof of the existence of an unofficial custom or practice and, even if successful in
doing so, must also demonstrate that the unofficial custom or practice actually caused the Plaintiff’s
constitutional rights to be violated in this case. The Plaintiff will not be able to do so.

9

Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 10 of 12 PageID 144

As stated, the Sheriff’s policy tracks the requirements of Florida Statute regarding the civil
commitment of persons pursuant to Florida’s Marchman Act, specifically F.S. 397.675 (2002).1
The Plaintiff was not arrested and rather was civilly committed. It is axiomatic that a criminal
investigation with the purpose of gathering evidence of a crime for use by a prosecuting authority
is not contemplated by Florida’s Marchman Act. In short, the Marchman Act does not require the
state to prove a person’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt as there is no intention to punish.
Consequently, there is no requirement to gather evidence for that purpose.
Florida Statute 397.675 grants law enforcement officers the authority to involuntarily
commit persons who meet the criteria for commitment based upon that officer’s good faith belief.2
In short, such determinations are in essence a judgment call based upon the information known to
the officer. However, there is no requirement to gather and preserve evidence of intoxication for
use in trial as would be the case in a D.U.I. prosecution, as there is no risk of criminal conviction.
The fact that Florida Statute Chapter 397 does not contemplate the gathering and
preservation of evidence as if the decision to Marchman Act an individual is on par with a D.U.I.
prosecution is underscored by other provisions of the chapter. Specifically, F.S. 397.6791
authorizes physicians, a spouse or guardian or relative or any responsible adult to seek commitment
pursuant to F.S. 397.675 as does F.S. 397.6793. (See also F.S. 397.6798-6799).

1

Plaintiff was taken into custody pursuant to the Marchman Act on November 10, 2002. See
Plaintiff’s Amended Complaint at paragraph 9.
2

See F.S. 397.6775; 397.677; and 397.6772(1)(b)(2002).
10

Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 11 of 12 PageID 145

Furthermore, Chapter 397 provides for involuntary commitment under a number of
circumstance which do not involve the gathering of evidence such as road sobriety exercises or
breath alcohol tests. See Chapter 397 (2002) Part V Involuntary Admissions Procedures
subsection(s) “C. Noncourt Involved Admissions; Emergency”; “D. Noncourt Involved
Admissions; Alternative Involuntary Assessment for Minors”; “E. Court Involved Admissions, Civil
Involuntary Proceedings; Generally”; “F. Court Involved Admissions; Involuntary Assessment;
Stabilization”; and “G. Court Involved Admissions; Involuntary Treatment.”
Even if the Plaintiff should not have been taken into custody pursuant to the Marchman Act,
as a result of the deputies failure to comply with the statute, the Sheriff would still be entitled to
summary judgment where the Sheriff’s policy requires deputies to comply with the statute.
The Defendant Sheriff is entitled to summary judgment in this case, where the Plaintiff
cannot carry his burden that this Defendant directly caused his constitutional rights to be violated
by the co-Defendants.
ANY DISPUTE IN THE MATERIAL FACTS REGARDING
THE PLAINTIFF’S ALLEGATIONS THAT HIS CONSTITUTIONAL
RIGHTS WERE ACTUALLY VIOLATED IS IMMATERIAL
Where the doctrine of respondeat superior is not applicable in a cause of action brought
against the Defendant Hunter as Sheriff pursuant to Title 42 U.S.C. §1983, the absence of
evidence of the existence of a custom, policy, practice or procedure attributable to the Defendant
Hunter as the governmental entity which actually caused a violation of the Plaintiff’s constitutional
rights entitles this Defendant to summary judgment even if there is a determinationthat the Plaintiff’s
11

Case 2:05-cv-00598-MMH-DNF Document 24

Filed 11/17/06 Page 12 of 12 PageID 146

constitutional rights were, in fact, violated by the co-Defendants. In such a situation, any dispute
in the facts regarding whether the Plaintiff’s constitutional rights were actually violated by the coDefendants becomes immaterialto the resolution of this Motion for Summary Judgment based upon
the Plaintiff’s inability to prove the existence of a causational custom, policy, practice, or procedure
of the Sheriff as the Plaintiff carries the burden of proof regarding this element of his Section 1983
claim against the Defendant Sheriff. See Celotex, supra.
The Motion should be granted.
I HEREBY CERTIFY I electronically filed a copy of the foregoing with the Clerk of the
Court by using the CM/ECF system which will send a notice of electronic filing to the following:
HUGH L. KOERNER, ESQUIRE, Attorney for Plaintiff, 100 S.E. Sixth Street, Fort
Lauderdale, FL 33301 this 17th day of November, 2006.

s/Richard A. Giuffreda
RICHARD A. GIUFFREDA - Trial Counsel
Florida Bar No. 705233
PURDY, JOLLY, GIUFFREDA & BARRANCO, P.A.
2455 East Sunrise Boulevard, Suite 1216
Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33304
Telephone:
(954) 462-3200
Telecopier:
(954) 462-3861
e-mail: richard@purdylaw.com
Attorneys for Defendant Sheriff

12

