UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY

 

DEBORAH FELLNER,
Individually and on Behalf of Those
Similarly Situated,

Plaintiffs,
Vv.

TRI-UNION SEAFOODS, L.L.C.,
d/b/a CHICKEN OF THE SEA,

Defendant.

Neem? eee! Mine me Sime nee! et Set" Nee nme! See! See Nee See!"

 

 

BRIEF IN OPPOSITION TO PLAINTIFF'S MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT'S
MOTION FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE

 

Kenneth A. Schoen KS-7180
BONNER KIERNAN TREBACH
& CROCIATA, LLP

299 Cherry Hill Road, Suite 300
Parsippany, NJ 07054
(973)335-8480

Attorneys for Defendant

On the Brief: John A. Kiernan, Esq.
Kenneth A. Schoen, Esq.
Scott H. Goldstein, Esq.
TABLE OF CONTENTS

PRELIMINARY STATEMENT...........cccceceececesceneneeeeeensenaeaneanncensneneerensea canes 1
LEGAL ARGUMENT ......-0.cccecescseeesnccecentenereceseenecseuentsaenaesarneeepeessuanersnnas 2

A. Plaintiff Failed to Take Any Steps To Oppose The Motion
Before the Return Date, Thus The Motion Should Not Be Sitricken............ 2

B. Even if the Court Considers Plaintiff's Motion, It Provides No Basis

To Deny Tri-Union's Motion Seeking Judicial Notice
for the Requested Documents.........ccreceseeceereeenensensteerseueeenenesarseeonaes 3

CONCLUSION ...cccccccceeeenceceeeeesecenneneeeseaneneesnaeaenensonneaneseensaceaene erasers eanaas 5
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY
(NEWARK VICINAGE)

CIVIL ACTION NOQ.:; 06-CV-688 (DMC)

 

DEBORAH FELLNER,
Individually and on Behalf of Those
Similarly Situated,

Plaintiffs,

Vv.

TRI-UNION SEAFOODS, L.L.C.,
d/b/a CHICKEN OF THE SEA,

Defendant.

 

BRIEF IN OPPOSITION TO PLAINTIFF'S MOTION TO STRIKE
DEFENDANT'S MOTION FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE

PRELIMINARY STATEMENT

Plaintiff has improperly and belatedly filed a motion to strike Tri-Union's motion
seeking judicial notice for several documents that would be helpful to the Court in
assessing Tri-Union's Reply and Plaintiff's opposition to Tri-Union's motion to dismiss
the Complaint pursuant to FRCP 12(b)(6). Indeed, Plaintiff did not respond to the motion
in any fashion before the originally listed retumm date, and her time to respond to the
motion has, therefore, elapsed. Even if the Court is inclined to consider plaintiffs
opposition disguised as a motion, it has no merit because it lacks arguments disputing
that the documents for which Tri-Union seeks judicial notice are entitled to be judicial

noticed.
Legal Argument

A. Plaintiff Failed to Take Any Steps To Oppose The Motion Before the
Return Date, Thus The Motion Should Not Be Stricken.

As an initial matter, this motion/opposition to defendant's motion for judicial
notice is untimely as it was filed after the motion was fully submitted. The motion was
submitted on short notice because the plaintiffs opposition to Tri-Union's motion to
dismiss the Complaint necessitated the submission of additional (publicly available)
documents to refute plaintiff's opposition. These documents included two FDA
publications. The first is entitled, "Is Mercury in Fish a Safety Concern?," excerpted from
the FDA Consumer, May, 1995 update. The second is a U.S. Food and Drug
Administration FDA Talk Paper which was prepared by the FDA Press Office, and is
entitled "FDA Announces Advisory on Methylmercury in Fish" dated January 12, 2001.
The third document was entitled "Letter Responding to Health Claim Petition dated
November 3, 2003 (Martek Petition): Omega-3 Fatty Acids and Reduced Risk of
Coronary Heart Disease" dated September 8, 2004, published by CFSAN/Office of
Nutritional Products, Labeling, and Dietary Supplements, written by William K.
Hubbard, Associate Commissioner for Policy and Planning. See Exhibits A, B, and C to
Schoen Certification.

Tri-Union had no other choice but to submit the motion for judicial notice on
short notice to ensure that it would be heard by the Court in conjunction with the motion
to dismiss so that the above-described documents could be considered on the motion.
Plaintiff had ample opportunity to take steps to oppose the motion on or before the

October 5, 2009 return date via letter, or a more formal opposition, but failed to do so.
The motion has already been submitted to the Court without opposition and plaintiffs
time to respond has elapsed. Thus, the motion should be considered by the Court as it was
submitted, unopposed.

B. Even if the Court Considers Plaintiff's Motion, Ht Provides No Basis

To Deny Tri-Union's Motion Seeking Judicial Notice for the
Requested Documents.

Next, in the event that the Court considers plaintiffs motion, it is essentially a
belated opposition to the motion. In that instance, there is ample support to grant Tri-
Union's motion seeking judicial notice of the requested documents. Indeed, while
plaintiff has argued that the motion for judicial notice did not contain any grounds or
reasons why the Court should take judicial notice of the requested documents, plaintiff's
own brief disputes this argument when she contended that Tri-Union's stated grounds for
judicial notice was that the requested documents were publicly available documents. (See
Plaintiffs brief in support of motion, p. 3) Given plaintiff's concession, she cannot
reasonably dispute that Tri-Union's motion stated its grounds sufficiently enough to
satisfy Fed. R. Civ. P 7(b)(1)(B).

Likewise, and more importantly, plaintiff's motion does not make even a casual
attempt to argue that the documents for which Tri-Union seeks judicial notice are not
- entitled to be judicially noticed. Nonetheless, even if plaintiff made this argument it
would be fruitless given the nature of the documents submitted.

Pursuant to Federal Rule of Evidence 201, a litigant must move to have the court
take judicial notice of documents that it seeks to attach to a papers submitted on a motion

to dismiss. A judicially noticed fact must be one not subject to reasonable dispute in that

it is either (1) generally known within the territorial jurisdiction of the trial court or (2)
capable of accurate and ready determination by resort to sources whose accuracy cannot
reasonably be questioned. See Federal Rule of Evidence 201(b). A party is entitled upon
request to an opportunity to be heard as to the propriety of taking judicial nolice and the
tenor of the matter noticed. In the absence of prior notification, the request may be made
after judicial notice has been taken. See Federal Rule of Evidence 201(b).

While plaintiff correctly points out that Tn-Union's motion seeking judicial
notice for certain documents erroneously omitted the footnoted citations to applicable
case law that it meant to include, it does not change the fact that the documents are
entitled to be judicially noticed. Indeed, these cases only served to bolster and further
underscore Tri-Union's argument that the requested documents are entitled to be
judicially noticed. As plaintiff concedes, Tri-Union argued that the Court is permitted to
take judicial notice of publicly available documents on a motion to dismiss. That is
precisely the proposition that the omitted cases supported. See Hollis-Arrington v. PHH
Mortgage Corp., No, 05-2556FLW, 2005 WL 3077853, (D.N.J 2005 (pursuant to Fed. R.
Civ. P. 201 court may take judicial notice of public records on motion to dismiss); Benak
v. Alliance Capital Mgmt. L.P., 349 F. Supp. 2d 882, 889 n.8 (D.N.J. 2004) (on motion
to dismiss, court may take judicial notice of publicly available documents); Sonntag v.
Papparozzi, 256 F. Supp 320, 324 (D.N.J. 2003) ("[T]he court may take judicial notice of
certain `integral' documents or facts in resolving a motion to dismiss).

In addition, the court is also permitted to take judicial notice of agency
documents, such as the two FDA published documents annexed to the motion for judicial
notice and/or the "Letter Responding to Health Claim Petition dated November 3, 2003

(Martek Petition): Omega-3 Fatty Acits and Reduced Risk of Coronary Heart Disease,'
dated September 8, 2004. See e.g. Jn re Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Securities
Litigation, 357 F. Supp. 2d 343 (D. Mass. 2005) (taking judicial notice of FDA policy
regarding long-term animal testing as a matter of public record); In re Wellbutrin
SR/Zpban Antitrust Litigation, 281 F. Supp. 2d 751, 755 n2 (E.D. Pa. 2003)(taking
judicial notice of FDA report posted on official FDA website); Warner-Lambert Ca. v.
Fed. Trade Comm'n, 562 F.2d 749, 754 (D. D.C. 1977) (granting motion requesting court
take judicial notice of FDA study of over the counter cold remedies).

Thus, even if the Court is inclined to consider plaintiffs motion, it is
uncontroverted that the Court is permitted to and should take judicial notice of the FDA
advisories and Martek Petition as requested by Tri-Union. Moreover, these materials will
assist the Court in its decision-making process.

CONCLUSION

Based on all of the foregoing reasons set forth above, plaintiff's motion to strike
Tri-Union's motion for judicial notice should be denied.

Respectfully submitted,
TRI-UNION SEAFOODS, L.L.C,

d/b/a CHICKEN OF THE SEA
By its attorney.

oo #
Kenneth A. Schoen (#KS-7180)

Bonner Kiernan Trebach & Crociata, LLP
299 Cherry Hill Road, Suite 300
Parsippany, NJ 07054

(973) 335-8480

 

DATED: November 2, 2009
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

i, Kenneth A. Schoen, hereby certify thal a true copy of the within document was
served upon Barry R. Eichen, Esq., Eichen Levinson, LLP, 40 Ethel Road, Edison, New
Jersey 08817, via first class mail on November 02, 2009.

    

  
 

205

By: 4
Kepatth A. Schoen

 
