IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS
Jeffrey P. Burcham, individually and on
behalf of all other similarly situated,
Plaintiff,

Ford Motor Credit Company, LLC,
Defendant,

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

3:16-cv-00943-DRH-SCW

(Removed from the Circuit Court
for the 20th Judicial Circuit, St. Clair
County, Illinois, Cause #2016-L-362)

RESPONSE IN OPPOSITION TO MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
COMES NOW, Jeffrey P. Burcham, individually and on behalf of all others similarly
situated, by and through his undersigned attorney, and for his Response in Opposition to
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, states as follows:
FACTS
On March 6, 2009, Plaintiff purchased a 2006 Ford Fusion SE (“the vehicle”), vehicle
identification number 3FAFP07Z66R198110, at Roberts Motors Inc. See Exhibit A, page
2, to Plaintiff’s Complaint. Contemporaneously with the purchase, Roberts Motors Inc. assigned
the dealership’s rights under the installment contract to Ford Motor Credit Company. See Exhibit
A, page 2, to Plaintiff’s Complaint.
On August 24, 2009, Plaintiff filed a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, which provided for payment
in full of the remaining balance of Plaintiff’s debt for the vehicle, with the exception of a small
difference in interest rates between the installment contract and the Chapter 13 Payment Plan.
See Exhibit B to Plaintiff’s Complaint. On September 2, 2009, Ford Motor Credit Company,
LLC, filed a Proof of Claim in the Plaintiff’s Chapter 13 case. See Exhibit A to Plaintiff’s
Complaint.

On November 13, 2014, Plaintiff received a discharge in his Chapter 13 bankruptcy,
discharging the small difference in interest between the contract and the Chapter 13 Plan, and
legally satisfying the lien on the vehicle. See Exhibit C to Plaintiff’s Complaint.
On March 16, 2015, Plaintiff filed a single count putative class action against Defendant
for failing to release his security interest in the vehicle. 1 On April 27, 2015, Plaintiff was finally
provided a release of his security interest by Ford Motor Credit Company. See Exhibit D to
Plaintiff’s Complaint. Because Defendant failed to timely release the security interest, Plaintiff
sued to enforce his rights in that security interest via the mechanism created by the Illinois
legislature that requires holders of security interests to release them within a certain time period
after satisfaction, or be monetarily penalized.
In Illinois, there is a self-executing statute which governs the releasing of security
interests in motor vehicles after their satisfaction. That statute is 625 ILCS 5/3-205, and it states:
Sec. 3-205. Release of security interest.
(a) Within 21 days after receiving payment to satisfy a
security interest in a vehicle for which the certificate of
title is in the possession of the lienholder, he shall execute
a release of his security interest, and mail or deliver the
certificate and release to the next lienholder named
therein, or, if none, to the owner or any person who
delivers to the lienholder an authorization from the owner
to receive the certificate. If the payment is in the form of
cash, a cashier's check, or a certified check, the number of
days is reduced to 10 business days. If the owner desires a
new certificate reflecting no lien, the certificate and
release from the lienholder may be submitted to the
Secretary of State, along with the prescribed application
and required fee, for issuance of that new certificate.
(b) Within 21 days after receiving payment to satisfy a
security interest in a vehicle for which the certificate of
title is in the possession of a prior lienholder, the
lienholder whose security interest is satisfied shall
1

This case, 3:15-cv-509, was voluntarily dismissed without prejudice by the Plaintiff on July 15, 2015, and re-filed
within the 1 year statute of limitations pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 41(a)(1)(A)(i).

execute a release and deliver the release to the owner or
any person who delivers to the lienholder an
authorization from the owner to receive it. If the payment
is in the form of cash, a cashier's check, or a certified
check, the number of days is reduced to 10 business days.
The lienholder in possession of the certificate of title may
either deliver the certificate to the owner, or the person
authorized by him, for delivery to the Secretary of State,
or, upon receipt of the release, may mail or may deliver
the certificate and release, along with prescribed
application and require fee, to the Secretary of State, who
shall issue a new certificate.
(c) In addition to any other penalty, a lienholder who
fails to execute a release of his or her security interest or
who fails to mail or deliver the certificate and release
within the time limit provided in subsection (a) or (b) is
liable to the person or entity that was supposed to receive
the release or certificate for $150 plus reasonable attorney
fees and court costs. An action under this Section may be
brought in small claims court or in any other appropriate
court.
On July 14, 2016, Plaintiff re-filed his single count putative class action against Ford
Motor Credit Company, LLC. On August 24, 2016, Defendant filed a Motion to Compel
Arbitration, claiming there is a valid agreement between it and the Plaintiff to arbitrate, and that
Plaintiff’s cause of action falls within the scope of that agreement to arbitrate. 2 However, the
cause of action -- enforcement of the security interest – was expressly excluded from the
arbitration agreement by the parties, and as such, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
should be denied.
ARGUMENT
A court must compel arbitration if it finds that 1) there exists between the parties a valid
arbitration agreement and 2) that the dispute at issue falls within the scope of that agreement.
2

Plaintiff notes for the record that Ford, prior to a ruling on its Motion to Compel Arbitration, submitted a claim for
this dispute to the American Arbitration Association, against Plaintiff’s objections as contained in Plaintiff’s prior
pleadings in this case, which Plaintiff reasserts as a reason for this Court to deny the Motion to Compel Arbitration.

Mitsubishi Motors Corp. v. Soler Chrysler-Plymouth, Inc., 473 U.S. 614 (1985). The dispute
here -- enforcement of the security interest in the vehicle -- was expressly excluded from
arbitration by the parties, and so Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration must be denied.
The arbitration provision at issue here states in relevant part:
Rights You and We Do Not Give Up: If a Claim is arbitrated, you and we
will continue to have the following rights, without waiving this arbitration
provision as to any Claim: 1) Right to file bankruptcy in court; 2) Right to
enforce the security interest in the vehicle, whether by repossession or
through a court of law; 3) Right to take legal action to enforce the arbitrator’s
decision; and 4) Right to request that a court of law review whether the
arbitrator exceeded its authority. (emphasis added)
See Plaintiff’s Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated by reference. The parties’ dispute in
this case is entirely premised on enforcement of the security interest in the vehicle, a point which
Defendant affirmatively states over and over in its Motion to Compel Arbitration: “Mr. Burcham
filed a complaint against Ford Credit…in connection with Ford Credit’s release of a security
interest in the vehicle,” (page 1); “Mr. Burcham filed this putative class action against Ford
Credit challenging Ford Credit’s failure to release its security interest in the vehicle,” (page 3);
“Mr. Burcham’s claim relates to Ford Credit’s security interest in the vehicle….” (page 4).
Because this dispute was expressly excluded from arbitration by the parties, and because no one
now challenges that the entire dispute hinges on the security interest, the parties’ duties
concerning it, and the enforcement of those duties, Defendant’s Motion must be denied.
The United States Supreme Court has long held that “arbitration is a matter of contract
and a party cannot be required to submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not agreed to so
submit.” AT&T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications Workers of America, 475 U.S. 643, 648
(1986). Here, Plaintiff and Defendant agreed to arbitrate, and not to arbitrate, certain disputes
that could arise from the contractual relationship between them. Enforcement of the security

interest, whether by Plaintiff or Defendant, was expressly excluded from arbitration, if the need
to enforce it arose for either party. The United States Supreme Court has also long held that the
“FAA (Federal Arbitration Act) thereby places arbitration agreements on an equal footing with
other contracts, Buckeye, supra, at 443, 126 S.Ct. 1204, and requires courts to enforce them
according to their terms.” Rent-A-Center, West, Inc., v. Jackson, 130 S.Ct. 2772, 2776 (2010),
citing Volt Information Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Univ., 489 U.S.
468, 478 (1989). As such, this Court must enforce the parties’ arbitration agreement according to
the terms on which the parties agreed when they made the contract, that being that actions
concerning the enforcement of the security interest by either party are excluded from arbitration.
Therefore, Defendant’s Motion must be denied.
CONCLUSION
The dispute in this case, enforcement of the security interest, was expressly excluded
from arbitration by agreement of the parties when they made the purchase contract. Defendant
now attempts to persuade the Court that enforcement of the security interest is somehow falls
into the category of “any claim, dispute, or controversy” between the parties, and it might, but
for the parties’ having specifically excluded this particular controversy. It is telling that
Defendant, while quoting liberally from the arbitration agreement, neglects to direct the Court’s
attention to the exclusions paragraph. This is because this dispute is excluded, and the Defendant
knows it, and knows the Court must deny its Motion to Compel.
WHEREFORE, for the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff Jeffrey P. Burcham, individually and
on behalf of all others similarly situated, requests that this Court enter an Order denying the
Motion to Compel Arbitration, and for any such other, further, and different relief as is
appropriate under the circumstances, and as allowed by law.

By:_/s/ Shari L. Murphy________
One of His Attorneys
Shari L. Murphy #6279670
The Law Offices of Shari L. Murphy, LLC
P.O. Box 136
Wood River, Illinois 62095-0136
Telephone: (618) 797-8888
Facsimile: (618) 576-6239
Attorneys for Plaintiff and Proposed Class

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS
Jeffrey P. Burcham, individually and on
behalf of all other similarly situated,
Plaintiff,

Ford Motor Credit Company, LLC,
Defendant,

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

3:16-cv-00943-DRH-SCW

(Removed from the Circuit Court
for the 20th Judicial Circuit, St. Clair
County, Illinois, Cause #2016-L-362)

NOTICE OF ELECTRONIC FILING AND CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE BY MAIL
On May 25, 2017, the undersigned electronically filed with the Clerk of the U.S. District
Court the Response in Opposition to Motion to Compel Arbitration.
The Plaintiff served electronically the Response in Opposition to Motion to Compel
Arbitration to all attorneys of record, and the following parties by mail:
NONE
by depositing a true copy of same, enclosed in a postage paid properly addressed envelope, in a
Wood River City branch, official depository under the exclusive care and custody of the United
States Postal Service, within the State of Illinois.

/s/ Shari L. Murphy

