UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA
TAMPA DIVISION
JOHN J. THORNTON,
(d/b/a Baby Boomer Headquarters)
an individual,
Plaintiff,
CASE NO.: 8:06-cv-1640-T27-TGW

vs.
J JARGON CO., a Florida corporation;
JEANETTE C. LINDERS, an individual,
and TOC PRODUCTIONS, INC., a Florida
Corporation.
Defendants.
/

DEFENDANTS’ RESPONSE TO PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO SEAL EXHIBITS PURSUANT TO PROTECTIVE ORDER
Defendants

J

JARGON

CO.,

JEANNETTE

C.

LINDERS

AND

TOC

PRODUCTIONS, INC., (“Defendants”) agree that the proposed Exhibits to Plaintiff’s
Motion to Strike [Dkt. 123] should be accepted under seal, as requested by Plaintiff in his
Unopposed Motion [Dkt. 124]. In the alternative, Defendants respectfully submit that an in
camera review of the proposed exhibits, rather than placing them in the Court record, will
allow the Court to evaluate the discovery issues raised by the Motion to Strike [Dkt. 123]
without compromising the highly confidential nature of the business documents.
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
Defendant Linders is the author of a highly successful theatrical production entitled
Menopause the Musical (“the Musical”). Defendants, J. Jargon Co. and TOC Productions,
Inc. are private companies. In this copyright infringement action, Plaintiff, John Thornton,

(“Thornton”) does not allege that the Musical in any way infringes his alleged work, but
rather that the free program distributed at some productions of the Musical included a simple,
fact intensive “Age Test” Plaintiff claims to have authored. Plaintiff’s discovery requests
focused heavily on discovering Defendants’ confidential personal and business finances in an
effort to establish his damages claim.

To avoid motions practice over confidentiality

objections to the discovery of such information, the parties agreed to seek, and the Court
entered, a protective order allowing the parties to designate financial information and royalty
information as “Confidential-Attorney’s Eyes Only.” [Dkt. 27] (“the Protective Order”).
The Protective Order requires that information designated in discovery as “ConfidentialAttorney’s Eyes Only” may not be filed with the Court except as required “for purposes of
trial, motions for summary judgment, other motions, or appeals” and require the parties to
seek to file such materials under seal pursuant to Local Rule 1.09. Dkt. 27 at 6.
Both Plaintiff and Defendants designated their confidential financial information as
“Confidential-Attorney’s Eyes Only” throughout the course of discovery. In conjunction
with discovery motions practice, Defendant Linders testified that she treats her financial
information as highly confidential and does not generally disclose it to third parties.
Declaration of Jeanette C. Linders at ¶ 8 [Dkt. 47]. The documents Plaintiff seeks to file in
support of his Motion to Strike [Dkt. 123] are highly confidential business documents
concerning the detailed terms of Defendants’ business relationships.

2

ARGUMENT
I.

The Material Should Be Sealed Because It Is Confidential Discovery
Material to Which There Is No Public Right of Access.

Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike [Dkt. 123] is in essence a Motion in Limine seeking to
exclude exhibits from the record at trial, based upon Plaintiff’s perception that the exhibits
should have been produced as discovery materials. The Eleventh Circuit has held that the
public does not have a common-law right of access to discovery material, “as these materials
are

neither

public

documents

nor

judicial

records.”

Chicago

Tribune

Co.

v.

Bridgestone/Firestone, Inc., 263 F.3d 1304, 1311 (11th Cir. 2001). The Eleventh Circuit has
taken this view of discovery material even further to hold that even when filed with the court,
“material filed with discovery motions is not subject to the common-law right of access,
whereas discovery material filed in connection with pretrial motions that require judicial
resolution of the merits is subject to the common-law right.” Id. at 1312 (emphasis added).
A motion in limine is not a dispositive motion requiring resolution of the merits, as it goes
only to the admissibility of evidence. See, e.g., Jack v. Glaxo Wellcome, Inc., 239 F. Supp.2d
1308, 1319 (N.D. Ga. 2002)(“A motion in limine is not a dispositive motion”); Hi Ltd.
Partnership v. Winghouse of Florida, Inc., No. 6:03-cv-116-Orl-22JGG, 2004 WL 5486964
at *13 (M.D. Fla. Oct. 5, 2004)(noting difference between motions in limine and dispositive
motions). Tellingly, the Motion to Strike is brought pursuant to Rule 37, which is a rule
governing discovery issues. Dkt. 123 at 1.

3

II.

Even if There Were a Right of Access, Here the Balance of Interest
Favors Allowing the Confidential Material To Be Filed Under Seal.

Even if the Court were to find a public right of access to these tangential discovery
materials, disclosure of the confidential materials on the public record is not automatic. In
balancing the public interest in accessing court documents against a party’s interest in
keeping the information confidential, the Eleventh Circuit requires district courts to consider
“among other factors, whether allowing access would impair court functions or harm
legitimate privacy interests, the degree of and likelihood of injury if made public, the
reliability of the information, whether there will be an opportunity to respond to the
information, whether the information concerns public officials or public concerns, and the
availability of a less onerous alternative to sealing the documents.” Romero v. Drummond
Co., Inc., 480 F.3d 1234, 1246 (11th Cir. 2007). “A party’s privacy or proprietary interest in
information sometimes overcomes the interest of the public in accessing the information.” Id.
The less the information is central to the merits of the case, the weaker is the public’s right to
access the information. Id.
Here, the balance tips in favor of maintaining Defendants’ confidentiality at this
time.1 The information at stake does not concern public officials or issues of great public
importance. However, release of Defendants’ confidential financial information harms their
legitimate privacy interests in maintaining the confidentiality of their finances. See, e.g.,
Ramada Worldwide Inc. v. AB Associates Midland Management, No. 8:07-CV-1459-T27EAJ, 2007 WL 3284047 at *1 (M.D. Fla. 2007)(ordering that defendant’s financial
1

Defendants recognize that if the documents are introduced at trial they will become part of the trial record.
However, it will not be clear until trial whether Defendants will be forced to use the confidential documents.
Until that time, their confidentiality should be preserved.

4

information be filed under seal to protect defendants’ privacy); McCarthy v. Barnett Bank of
Polk County, 876 F.2d 89, 90 (11th Cir. 1989)(holding that privacy interest in personal
financial records provided good cause for protective order limiting disclosure of financial
records).
III.

In the Alternative, the Court Should Review the Materials in camera.

Defendants submit that review of the actual exhibits is unnecessary to a decision on
the merits of the Motion to Strike. However, Defendants respectfully request that in the
alternative to receiving the documents into the file under seal, the Court review the proposed
Exhibit B in camera. In the context of determining whether sensitive government documents
should be discoverable, the courts have noted that “Requiring materials sought for discovery
to be submitted to the court for an In camera inspection is a practice which is both reasonable
and protective of the defendant’s rights.” U.S. v. Buckley, 586 F.2d 798, 506 (5th Cir.
1978)(discussing FBI files). Similar logic applies here, in that “in areas where, as in the
present case, the request involves materials the disclosure of which is arguably not in the
public interest,” in camera inspection is a reasonable method to balance parties’ competing
interests. Id.
CONCLUSION
For all of the foregoing reasons Defendants respectfully request that the Court order
the exhibits filed under seal, or in the alternative, review proposed Exhibit B to Plaintiff’s
Motion to Strike [Dkt. 123] in camera rather than making them part of the public record.

5

Dated: October 20, 2008

By: /s/ G. Donovan Conwell, Jr.
G. Donovan Conwell, Jr.
Florida Bar No: 371319
G. Wrede Kirkpatrick
Florida Bar No: 984116
Dineen Pashoukos Wasylik
Florida Bar No: 191620
CONWELL KIRKPATRICK, P.A.
2701 N. Rocky Point Drive, Suite 1200
Tampa, Florida 33607
(813) 282-8000; (813) 282-8800 Facsimile
dconwell@csklawfirm.com
wkirkpatrick@csklawfirm.com
dwasylik@csklawfirm.com
Counsel for Defendants
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on October 20, 2008, I electronically filed the foregoing
with the Clerk of the Court by using the CM/ECF system, which will send a notice of
electronic filing to the following:

William F. Hamilton, Esq.
william.hamilton@hklaw.com,
Stefan V. Stein, Esq.
stefan.stein@hklaw.com,
Michael J. Colitz, III, Esq.
michael.colitz@hklaw.com,
Woodrow H. Pollack, Esq.
woodrow.pollack@hlaw.com
Holland & Knight LLP
100 N. Tampa Street, Suite 4100
Tampa, FL 33602.
/s/ G. Donovan Conwell, Jr.
Attorney

6

