Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 1 of 40

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
__________________________________________
)
LANDMARK LEGAL FOUNDATION
)
)
Plaintiff,
)
)
v.
) Civil Action No. 12-1726 (RCL)
)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
)
AGENCY,
)
)
)
Defendant.
)
__________________________________________)
DEFENDANT’S OPPOSITION TO
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SPOLIATION SANCTIONS

INTRODUCTION
This case arises out of a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request by Landmark Legal
Foundation (Landmark) that was sent to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on August
17, 2012. Specifically, Landmark in a letter signed by its president, Mark R. Levin, sent a twopart FOIA request to EPA, seeking:
Any and all records identifying the names of individuals, groups and/or organizations
outside of EPA with which the EPA, EPA employees, EPA contractors and/or
EPA consultants have had communications of any kind relating to all proposed
rules or regulations that have not been finalized by the EPA between January 1, 2012
and August 17, 2012;
and
Any and all records indicating an order, direction, or suggestion that the issuance of
regulations, the announcements of regulations and/or public comment of regulations
should be slowed or delayed until after November 2012 or the presidential election of
2012.
Landmark was granted a waiver of all fees associated with this request, but denied expedited

1

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 2 of 40

processing. 1 The EPA assigned this request to the Office of the Administrator for processing,
and then engaged in internal discussion about the scope of the request because the document
descriptions were so broad that there was no practical way to identify search terms that could
better define the records sought. Also, as written, the request would involve too many people
throughout the Agency. Deposition of Jonathan Newton (Newton Depo.,) at p. 15. Even though
the request was broad and unwieldy, EPA, in good faith, communicated with Landmark to
narrow the scope so that a search could begin. Newton Depo., at p. 16 and Plaintiff’s Deposition
Exh. 19.
Thereafter, when EPA realized that its search may have been incomplete, not because it
had excluded any office or person, but because it appeared that more records should have been
located, it continued to search, and ultimately released more information before filing its Motion
for Summary Judgment. The fact that EPA’s complete response may have been delayed does not
mean that the EPA acted in bad faith with regard to Landmark’s request. See Tijerina v. Walters,
821 F.2d 789, 799 (D.C. Cir. 1987) (“However fitful or delayed the release of information under
the FOIA may be . . . if we are convinced [the party has] however belatedly, released all
nonexempt material, we have no further judicial function to perform under the FOIA.”).
Contrary to Landmark’s allegations, continuing to search for and release responsive documents

1

On December 12, 2012, Landmark filed a Motion for a Preliminary Injunction in this case to compel the EPA to
inter alia preserve records and to expedite the processing of its request. See ECF # 14 - 19. That Motion was
denied on December 21, 2012. See ECF # 19. The Court found that there was no indication that the “EPA has or
will destroy any records related to this request” and that the 2003 Order, in a previous FOIA case involving
Landmark and the EPA, granting Landmark’s request for a Preliminary Injunction was distinguishable because of
the impending change in Administrations. In that case, sanctions were levied against the EPA when, electronic
records were destroyed in contravention of the court’s order. In the instant case, the Court has issued no such order.
The Court also found inter alia that, in this case, the EPA had already indicated that it had begun the process of
collecting records and that the mere “potential of destruction” was not sufficient to demonstrate the need for such an
order because such a possibility existed with regard to any FOIA request and that the EPA is already barred from
destroying many records which would be responsive under the Federal Records Act. EPA had issued a litigation
hold and the individual overseeing the EPA’s response to Landmark’s request stated that he would “comply to the
best of [his] ability” with the EPA’s obligation to preserve information relevant to the FOIA litigation and that his
staff had been instructed to comply with preservation obligations. ECF # 16, p. 13.

2

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 3 of 40

after a “final” production is complete does not show bad faith but rather shows good faith on the
part of the agency. See Meeropol v. Meese, 790 F.2d 942, 952-53 (D.C. Cir. 1986). In the end,
Landmark received thousands of pages of Agency documents in response to its FOIA request. 2
On May 15, 2013, EPA filed its Motion for Summary Judgment. ECF # 30. EPA
argued that it had conducted an adequate search for the requested records, had provided Plaintiff
with a Vaughn index that described the withheld information and had properly withheld
information from disclosure pursuant to FOIA Exemptions 5 and 6. As a result, EPA requested
that the Court enter summary judgment in its favor and dismiss the matter with prejudice. Id. at
pp. 1-2.
On August 14, 2013, the Court denied EPA’s Motion for Summary Judgment, primarily
on the basis of unanswered questions regarding the Agency’s search, and granted Landmark
limited discovery on the following two issues:
1) Whether and to what extent the EPA Administrator, Deputy
Administrator, and/or Chief of Staff utilized personal email accounts to
conduct official business during the relevant time period; and
2) Whether the EPA initially excluded the Administrator, Deputy
Administrator, and/or chief of Staff from Landmark’s FOIA request.
See ECF # 39 at p. 14.
Thereafter, Landmark submitted two sets of written interrogatories and two requests for
the production of documents, which were answered by the EPA. In addition, Landmark deposed
five witnesses: Eric Wachter, Director of the Office of the Executive Secretariat (OEX) within
the Office of the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the declarant
2

EPA initially produced responsive documents to Landmark on February 27, 2013. Between February and April of
2013, in response to communications with Landmark, EPA amended its disclosures to Landmark, culminating in a
“final” disclosure of records located in the initial search on April 12, 2013. ECF No. 30, ¶ 15. This disclosure
included 1,134 pages in 123 documents released in full, 1,678 pages in 196 documents with redactions, and an index
of documents withheld under FOIA exemptions. Id., ¶15. EPA then released the records located in its supplemental
search on May 13, 2013.

3

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 4 of 40

in the action; Jonathan Newton, FOIA Coordinator in the Office of the Administrator; Aaron
Dickerson, former Special Assistant to former Administrator Lisa Jackson; Robert Perciasepe,
former Deputy Administrator of the EPA; and Lisa Jackson, former Administrator of the EPA.
EPA did not move to block any of these depositions. These witnesses testified to, among other
things, their record-keeping and record maintenance practices.
The evidence that Landmark developed during discovery fails to support its claim that
relevant, responsive information was lost, let alone intentionally so. Ms. Jackson testified that
she generally did not use text messaging for business purposes. Deposition of Lisa Jackson
(Jackson Depo.) at p. 25. Mr. Perciasepe testified that with respect to Agency business,
“virtually, [his] only communication using text messages [was] to the [EPA] IT department when
the [Agency’s] email is not working.” August 7, 2004, Deposition of Robert (“Bob”) Perciasepe
(Perciasepe I Depo.) at pp. 45-48. As to their use of their private email accounts, they testified
that any email thread or document pertaining to EPA business would be transferred to an EPA
electronic recordkeeping system. Jackson Depo., at p. 42; Perciasepe Depo., at p. 16. This
testimony serves as additional evidence that EPA’s decision to search its Lotus Notes email
holdings demonstrates that the Agency’s search was reasonably calculated to uncover the
relevant documents. See Weisberg v. DOJ, 705 F.2d 1344, 1351 (D.C. Cir. 1983).
In spite of this, on July 24, 2014, Landmark moved for sanctions alleging a “cover up” of
sorts and referring to the EPA’s actions in responding to Landmark’s FOIA request as not only
subversive, but deceptive and obstructive. None of this is true and the evidence supports neither
a cover up, subversion, deception or obstructive behavior.
First, although Landmark raises a host of complaints about EPA, most of these
complaints stem from EPA’s first and supplemental search in response to the FOIA request and

4

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 5 of 40

are not actually relevant to a spoliation claim. Indeed, rather than seeking the documents
requested, Landmark seeks to drastically expand federal agencies’ record-keeping obligations,
while also subjecting those obligations to the oversight of private litigants (such as Landmark
here). FOIA neither justifies nor provides for such intrusive relief.
Second, despite Landmark’s argument that EPA failed to produce records from personal
email accounts and from text messages located on government-issued Blackberry devices, the
record shows that despite having taken hours of deposition testimony, Landmark cannot
demonstrate that relevant information is likely to have been lost, which is required for spoliation.
In other words, Landmark has failed to prove that any material responsive to its FOIA request
was destroyed.
Indeed, Landmark’s motion entirely fails to discuss whether the purportedly destroyed
records were even responsive to Landmark’s FOIA request, i.e., relating to the timing of
regulations or representing communications with outside parties about proposed regulations.
The senior officials who were deposed, including the former Administrator, both stated that they
did not use text messaging for substantive business purposes, except for the limited instances Mr.
Perciasepe texted Renee Wynn, Assistant Administrator for the Office of Environmental
Information (the EPA’s Information Technology office) concerning IT problems. As Ms.
Jackson explained, text messages are inherently not well-suited to conducting official EPA
business. Jackson Depo., at p 25:8-10.
Although Landmark makes much of the former Administrator’s testimony that numerous
outside groups had her phone number—so that, for example, those groups would have a national
contact at EPA to assist with the emergency response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill—that
testimony is taken grossly out of context. As Landmark’s counsel clearly acknowledged at the

5

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 6 of 40

deposition, the former Administrator testified that she was grateful when her children sent her
text messages; she certainly did not admit to texting with any outside groups. Jackson Depo., pp.
27-28. This mis-characterization of the former Administrator’s testimony exemplifies the thin
record on which Landmark now seeks sanctions. In point of fact, there is only one alleged text
message that Landmark can point to as having potentially existed—i.e., an alleged text between
the former Administrator and the CEO of a cotton oil-absorbent company. But it has not been
established that this text message even existed; indeed, Ms. Jackson testified that:
“I have no way to confirm and I actually doubt that there was a conversation via text
message. There are lots of folks who reach out, and lots of times I write back and say
can you send an email or can you in some other way contact me if I believed
it was more appropriately handled in that context because text messages, little
short messages are not really appropriate. Jackson Depo. p. 21 ln 16 – p. 22 ln 2.”
Moreover, that alleged text message, if it existed, would date from 2010 – well before
this FOIA request even was sent to EPA. Finally, this alleged text message is in no way related
to rules or rulemaking, the substantive topic of Landmark’s request. This single alleged text
message—the only one specifically discussed in the record— offers no support whatsoever for
Landmark’s sanctions motion.
At bottom, Landmark has the burden to establish spoliation of responsive records, but has
failed to carry that burden here. Indeed, Landmark’s motion makes no attempt whatsoever to
establish that the purportedly destroyed records were responsive to the underlying FOIA request.
Absent that connection, there can be no spoliation of relevant information.
Finally, Landmark’s motion spends a significant amount of time re-hashing issues related
to the past (and ongoing) processing of Landmark’s underlying FOIA request. These issues are
wholly irrelevant to the present spoliation motion. Nonetheless, these issues likewise do not cast
any doubt on the EPA’s good faith.

6

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 7 of 40

In an attempt to finally resolve Landmark’s concerns with the Agency’s response to its
request, as well as to preserve this Court’s resources, EPA has voluntarily reached out to
Landmark and negotiated the parameters of an entirely new and exhaustive third search. The
attorneys for the parties have met face to face, and exchanged correspondence regarding the
multiple search terms that will be used for the new search. See July 31, 2014, Correspondence
with Landmark, attached as Defendant (Def.), Exh. 1. The EPA has agreed to the search terms in
spite of the fact that these broad terms may produce thousands of pages of unresponsive
documents to be manually reviewed. This review will undeniably take longer than 30 days, but
EPA has agreed to provide Landmark with a schedule before September 22, 2014. The EPA has
also, as Landmark requested, begun a manual review of the former Administrator’s briefing
materials from the account briefing@epa.gov, and on August 29, 2014, sent Landmark its first
production from that account. 3 The EPA will continue to work with Landmark regarding the
scope of the agreed upon new search and the documents produced as a result of that search.
ARGUMENT
Spoliation is “the destruction or significant alteration of evidence, or the failure to
preserve property for another’s use as evidence in pending or reasonably foreseeable litigation.”
Centrifugal Force, Inc., v. Softnet Comm., Inc., 783 F.Supp. 2d 736, 740-741 (S.D. NY 2011). A
party seeking a finding of spoliation has the burden of establishing the elements of a spoliation
claim. These elements are (1) that the party having control over the evidence had an obligation
to preserve it at the time it was destroyed; (2) that the evidence was destroyed with a culpable
state of mind and (3) that the destroyed evidence was relevant to the party’s claim or defense. Id.
As Landmark acknowledges, the party seeking spoliation must also establish prejudice as a result

3

It is anticipated that the parties will confer about the briefing materials that were already produced at a later date;
however, that issue is not currently before this Court.

7

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 8 of 40

of the spoliation. Pl. Mot. at 29-30.
Landmark has fundamentally failed to meet these elements. First, as discussed above,
Landmark has not even attempted to establish that any (allegedly) destroyed materials were
actually relevant to this litigation—i.e., as responsive to Landmark’s underlying FOIA request.
Even assuming relevance, moreover, Landmark has also failed to establish prejudice.
Landmark’s sole argument on this score is a single conclusory sentence: “Plaintiff cannot
contemplate a scenario where it could be more prejudiced.” Pl. Mot. at 34. Such an assertion is
not an argument, much less a basis for concluding that Landmark has adequately carried its
burden to demonstrate prejudice. Finally, even assuming Landmark has sufficiently met the
above elements, Landmark has not demonstrated that EPA acted with a culpable state of mind so
as to warrant sanctions. Certainly, Landmark has not justified the imposition of the broadranging remedies sought here, many of which find no basis in law or fact. Thus, Landmark’s
spoliation motion should be denied, and the EPA should be permitted to continue the ongoing
processing and release of documents in response to Landmark’s underlying FOIA request.
I.

LANDMARK IS UNABLE TO SHOW BY CLEAR AND CONVINCING
EVIDENCE THAT EPA SPOLIATED RECORDS OR ACTED WITH THE
REQUISITE CULPABILITY TO WARRANT THE PUNITIVE SANCTIONS
REQUESTED.
Landmark is unable to sustain the heavy burden of persuasion required for this Court to

impose sanctions. A district court’s power to impose sanctions flows from two sources: Rule
37(b)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which authorizes the imposition of sanctions
for the violation of a discovery order; and the court’s inherent authority to “protect [its] integrity
and prevent abuses of the judicial process.” Webb v. District of Columbia, 146 F.3d 964, 971
(D.C. Cir. 1998) (quoting Shepherd v. American Broad. Cos., 62 F.3d 1469, 1474 (D.C. Cir.
1995)). Rule 37 does not apply here because Landmark has not identified a discovery order that
8

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 9 of 40

EPA violated. The EPA answered Landmark’s written discovery requests and acquiesced to its
request for depositions. To the extent that there was a disagreement as to the scope of the
deposition questioning, given the limited discovery ordered, that disagreement was promptly
resolved by the Court and no issues of that nature remain. Hence, in the instant case, there is no
claimed Fed. R. Civ. P. 37 violation occurring during discovery which could lead to identifiable
sanctions. Nor has there been a violation of a court order, as was the case in Landmark v. EPA
(Landmark I), 272 F. Supp. 2d 70 (D.D.C. 2003). See Mahaffey v. Marriott, 898 F. Supp. 2d 54,
58 n. 2 (D.D.C. 2012)(A production order is required in order to trigger sanctions pursuant to
Rule 37(b)).
The district court’s second source of power to impose sanctions is its inherent authority.
“When rules alone do not provide courts with sufficient authority to protect their integrity and
prevent abuses of the judicial process, the inherent power fills the gap.” Shepherd v. American
Broadcasting Companies, Inc., 62 F.3d 1469, 1474 (D.C. Cir. 1995)(citations omitted). That
inherent power, however, is limited in cases against the United States. See Alexander v. F.B.I.,
541 F. Supp. 2d 274, 301 (D.D.C. 2008) (Lamberth, J.) (“As a general matter, it is unassailable
that a court's inherent authority includes the power to assess attorneys’ fees or other monetary
fines against either parties or their attorneys. Absent a waiver of sovereign immunity, however,
that power does not encompass the authority to impose monetary sanctions against the
government.” (internal citations omitted)). Thus, it is doubtful that even the most conventional
sanction requested by Landmark—attorneys’ fees and costs—is available here.
Even assuming that sanction’s availability, however, Landmark still has not met the
heavy burden of justifying an award here. Because the Court’s inherent powers are shielded
from direct democratic controls, they must be exercised with restraint and discretion “because of

9

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 10 of 40

their very potency” See id; citing Chambers v. NASCO, Inc. 501 U.S. 32, 44 (1991). The party
seeking spoliation sanctions pursuant to a court’s inherent powers “bears an evidentiary burden
that is calibrated to ‘ensure that the gravity of the sanction corresponds to the misconduct.’”
Clark v. Wash. Metro. Area Transit Auth., 904 F. Supp. 2d 11, 21-22 (D.D.C. 2012) (quoting
Shepherd, 62 F.3d at 1479); See Jefferson v. Reno, 123 F.Supp.2d 1, 4 (D.C. 2000).
A heightened standard of proof is required in cases where the Court asserts its inherent
powers because most inherent power sanctions are fundamentally punitive. Shepherd, 62 F.3d at
1476. The Supreme Court has recognized that awards of attorneys’ fees for bad faith conduct
serve the same punitive and compensatory purposes as fines imposed for civil contempt. Id.,
citing Chambers, 501 U.S. at 53-54. As a result, courts require clear and convincing evidence of
misconduct before imposing attorneys’ fees and expenses under their inherent power. Id.
“It is settled that a finding of bad faith is required for sanctions under the court’s inherent
powers. Thus, alleged misconduct . . . that does not involve bad faith is . . . beyond the Court’s
inherent authority to sanction. ” Alexander, 541 F. Supp. 2d at 304. As stated in D’Onofrio v.
SFX Sports Group, Inc, 2010 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 86711 * 14 (August 24, 2010), contempt orders,
awards of attorneys’ fees, and the imposition of fines are all fundamentally punitive in nature and
therefore a court must find clear and convincing evidence of the predicate misconduct before
imposing them. Accordingly, there must be clear and convincing evidence that a litigant is
substantially motivated by vindictiveness, obduracy, or mala fides for the assessment of
attorney’s fees and costs. Pacificorps v. Northwest Pipeline GP, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 174593
* 30-31 (D. Or., Dec. 10, 2012). 4

4

On the other hand, “issue related sanctions,” such as adverse evidentiary determinations and preclusion of evidence
are fundamentally remedial rather than punitive and a court may impose such sanctions whenever a preponderance
of the evidence establishes that a party’s misconduct has tainted the evidentiary resolution of the issue. Id.; see
Mahaffey, 898 F. Supp. 2d 54 a case involving the lower evidentiary burden regarding the “issue related” sanction of

10

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 11 of 40

Landmark argues that EPA engaged in intentional spoliation by failing to preserve the
senior officials’ emails from their personal (non-EPA) account and text messages on their
government-issued Blackberry and that it is therefore entitled to, inter alia, reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs incurred in the litigation. Pl. Mot. at 2, 36. Because Landmark is unable to satisfy
the high evidentiary burden, i.e., clear and convincing evidence of vindictiveness, obduracy or
mala fides, required for such an award, an award of attorney’s fees and costs in the instant action
is not warranted.
A) Landmark Has Entirely Failed to Establish that Responsive Materials Subject to
FOIA Were Destroyed on Personal (Non-EPA) Email Accounts.
With respect to personal emails, Landmark has failed to establish the destruction of
relevant information for three reasons. First, emails that solely exist in personal email accounts
are not “agency records” subject to FOIA because they are not under the custody and control of
the Agency. Second, the record shows that in those limited instances where EPA officials used
their personal email accounts, they placed the email into EPA systems for recordkeeping and
FOIA purposes. And third, even assuming that work-related emails existed that were destroyed,
Landmark makes absolutely no attempt to establish that those emails were responsive to the
underlying FOIA request.
First, emails on personal email accounts are not “agency records” subject to FOIA. For a
requester to establish entitlement to a requested record, the requester must establish both that the
agency is “withholding” the record and that the requested record is an “agency record.” See
Kissinger v. Reporters Comm. For Freedom of the Press, 445 U.S. 136, 150 (1980). To meet

an adverse inference; Ritchie v. United States, 451 F.3d 1019, 1025 (9th Cir. 2006) (the “burden on the party seeking
the adverse inference is lower,” and “the trier of fact may draw such an inference based even on a very slight
showing that the [destroyed] documents are relevant.”) Because there are no “issue-related” sanctions in this case,
there is no basis for the Court to infer agency misconduct. Rather, there must be clear and convincing evidence of
Agency misconduct.

11

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 12 of 40

those two requirements, Landmark must show that the requested emails (on the personal email
accounts) are in the EPA’s possession, custody, and control. Here, Landmark fails to meet those
requirements. As emails existing solely on personal email accounts, such emails existed outside
EPA’s possession, so EPA could not have “withheld” those emails. Id. at 150-54. Moreover, the
EPA lacked custody and control over any personal emails. See CEI v. NASA, 989 F. Supp. 2d
74, 86-87 (D.D.C. 2013). Thus, any emails that resided only in the personal email accounts
would not have been subject to FOIA in the first place, so their destruction would not have
constituted spoliation or prejudiced Landmark’s ability to receive a complete response to its
FOIA request. Further, EPA instructed employees to bring such emails onto EPA email systems
so that they would be available under FOIA, which the evidence shows was done here.
Second, even assuming work-related emails on personal accounts are subject to FOIA,
Landmark has not established that any such emails existed that were not properly captured on
EPA systems. The senior officials testified that as to their very limited use of their private email
accounts, any email thread or document pertaining to EPA business would be transferred to an
EPA system. Jackson Depo., at p. 42, 44-45; Perciasepe I Depo., at p. 16 – 23, 28-30, 32. Ms.
Jackson testified that it was her responsibility to ensure she did not do anything that would
hinder the efforts of the offices to perform their functions under all record-keeping requirements
that she had to adhere to. She also stated that it was her practice to comply with federal laws to
ensure that agency records were managed properly. Jackson Depo., at p. 16-17. Mr. Perciasepe
testified that his responsibility “[wa]s to preserve records so that they are available for the
FOIA”. Perciasepe I Depo., at p. 39.
Regarding Ms. Jackson’s use of her personal email account, she testified that:
“So what I was instructed to do was to make a practice, which I did, of
forwarding any emails which could be construed as pertaining to government
12

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 13 of 40

business or government records into the EPA system so that they could be
captured and preserved there[.]”(Emphasis added).
Jackson Depo., at p. 42:10-15
Similarly, regarding Mr. Perciasepe’s personal email account, he testified that:
[I]f somebody sent me something to [my personal] email address and it
was related to EPA, I would forward it to be captured in the EPA system . . . If
somebody sends an email to me, which I have to say is extremely rare, in my
personal email that has a question about EPA activities or has comments on
EPA activities or is requesting some action on the part of EPA, I would send it
into the EPA system to be captured in our records management system.
Perciasepe I Depo. at pp. 17, 18.
Eric Wachter, the Director of the Office of the Executive Secretariat (OEX), testified that
with regard to records from personal email accounts, EPA officials were known to forward
emails into the EPA system so that those emails would be captured in the same system as emails
from the work account. Deposition of Eric Wachter (Wachter Depo., at pp. 26 - 28).
This practice is also consistent with EPA’s current interim records policy, which states:
Official Agency business should first and foremost be done on
official EPA information systems (i.e., email, instant messaging, (IM),
computer work stations, shared service solutions, etc.). When due to
extraordinary circumstances, this does not occur, the creator must ensure
that any use of a non-governmental system does not affect the
preservation of Federal records for Federal Records Act purposes, or the
ability to identify and process those records, if requested, under the
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) or for other official business (e.g.,
litigation, Congressional oversight requests.). In this very rare occasion,
staff should forward email (or “cc” email) or electronic file(s) to their
EPA email account in order for records to be captured in an approved
EPA records management system. Once the electronic files have been
captured in an approved EPA records management system, they should
be removed from non-EPA information systems, unless there is a
specific obligation to maintain the files on all systems on which they
appear. Additionally, emails forwarding a news article or web link from
a personal email account into EPA’s system and emails forwarding a
document to a personal email account to enable printing or viewing both
create a copy of the email in EPA’s email system. Users can properly
preserve the copy of the email that is on EPA’s system to meet their
13

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 14 of 40

preservation requirements.
Exh. 3 to Declaration of Liza Hearns (Hearns Decl.), Interim Records Management Policy CIO
2155.2 at p. 3. Finally, this practice is consistent with the evidence in this case, in which a few
documents (such as EPA-32 and EPA-33, representing an unsolicited comment on a rule sent to
former Deputy Administrator Bob Perciasepe’s personal account) were sent into Agency systems
from personal email accounts for records management and FOIA purposes.
Significantly, the EPA’s Office of the Inspector General investigated EPA’s practice and
procedure with regard to the use of personal email accounts and determined that there was no
evidence to support the claim that EPA used, promoted, or encouraged the use of private email
accounts to circumvent records management responsibilities. See U.S. Envtl. Protect. Agency,
Office of Inspector Gen., No. 13-P-0433, Congressionally Requested Inquiry Into the EPA’s Use
of Private and Alias Email Accounts (2013), http://www.epa.gov/oig/reports/2013/20130926-13P-0433.pdf 5
Aaron Dickerson, then-Special Assistant to the former Administrator, Lisa Jackson, also
directly asked Ms. Jackson whether she could remember any documents that were responsive to
Landmark’s request. Deposition of Aaron Dickerson (Dickerson Depo.), at pp. 29-32 and
Dickerson Deposition Exhibit 1. Ms. Jackson told him that she did not. The fact that Ms.
Jackson testified that she deleted many of her personal emails “en masse” without reading them
is therefore irrelevant. Certainly if she did not read them, there was no communication to her
and absolutely no proof that they had any relevancy to this request.
Further, Mr. Perciasepe testified that he rarely received official communications via his
personal email. Perciasepe I Depo., at pp. 16, 18. Landmark presents no evidence, nor does it
allege that Mr. Perciasepe deleted any work-related personal emails prior to forwarding them to a
5

The IG report was produced to Landmark during discovery in this litigation.

14

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 15 of 40

government account. Instead, Landmark merely argues that Mr. Perciasepe’s practice of moving
work-related emails from his personal account constitutes spoliation because it is allegedly
inconsistent with EPA’s litigation hold. See Pl. Mot. at 26. However, the instruction in the
Agency’s litigation hold document to preserve emails in personal accounts has no bearing on
EPA’s ability to capture the content of forwarded emails. Moreover, the EPA should not be
punished for issuing a litigation hold that was broader than necessary. The breadth of the
litigation hold does not relieve Landmark of its fundamental obligation to establish the
destruction of relevant materials. Finally, in the exercise of good faith and to address Landmark’s
specific concerns, Mr. Perciasepe, with the aid of EPA’s Office of General Counsel, searched his
personal [non-EPA] accounts for relevant documents and found nothing. Perciasepe I Depo., at
p. 28.
Third, even if there had been some evidence of lost official emails on personal email
accounts (which there is not), Landmark makes no attempt whatsoever to establish that any such
emails were actually responsive to the FOIA request. To be sure, Landmark is not required to
prove the exact contents of the destroyed documents. But Landmark, in order to show culpable,
bad faith conduct, is required at least to give some basis for assuming the destroyed evidence was
relevant to the litigation. Here, Landmark had numerous opportunities to make that showing
throughout the discovery process, but did not even ask the EPA officials about the content of any
destroyed documents. This defect is fatal, highlighting how Landmark has failed to carry its
burden of establishing that responsive records were destroyed.
Similarly, even assuming destruction of relevant personal emails, Landmark makes no
attempt to establish that the emails were destroyed at a time when EPA had a duty to preserve
them. Landmark cannot establish spoliation, for example, if personal emails were deleted before

15

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 16 of 40

EPA even received Landmark’s FOIA request. This complete absence of evidence regarding the
timing of any alleged destruction is yet another fatal defect to Landmark’s attempt to establish
spoliation.
With respect to personal emails there is no evidence, much less clear and convincing
evidence, that EPA destroyed responsive material, or that EPA did so with the culpable mindset
of bad faith necessary for the imposition of sanctions. Speculative allegations are insufficient as
the court must make an explicit finding that the target of the sanctions acted in bad faith if the
court is to exercise its inherent power. Alexander, 541 F. Supp. 2d 274 at 304.
B) Landmark Has Not Established That Responsive Text Messages Were Destroyed.
Similarly, with respect to text messages, Landmark has once again entirely failed to carry
its burden of establishing the destruction of relevant information. First, EPA officials again
testified that they had no recollection of using text messages for conducting official EPA
business. Both former Administrator Jackson and former Deputy Administrator Perciasepe
testified that they had government-owned Blackberries but did not use text messaging for
substantive official business. The Deputy Administrator, Mr. Perciasepe testified that “virtually,
[his] only communication using text messages [was] to the [EPA] IT department when the email
is not working.” Perciasepe I Depo., at p. 45-48. He also stated that his family would text him
but that he did not use his Blackberry to access personal or family email accounts. Id.,at p. 47.
The former Administrator testified that the “Blackberry was an insufficient tool” and that “text
messages, little short messages are not really appropriate.” Jackson Depo., at p. 49, 22. When
asked what modes of communication Ms. Jackson used with people when she was the EPA
Administrator, she said that “[t]he practice that [she] employed was to have daily meetings,
briefings, briefing book[s], letters, correspondence, telephone calls, emails were certainly a tool.

16

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 17 of 40

In general [she] considered text messaging to ... not [be] a good method for use”. Id., at p. 86;
see also id. at 25 (“I didn't use text messages to do government business in general.”).
Landmark accuses former Administrator Jackson of testifying that she communicated
with “people in corporations, people in the environmental movement, people in government,
people in nonprofits, people in academia, my family,” and that ‘[s]he would be grateful’ when
those individuals would text her.” Pl. Mot. at 23 (quoting Jackson Depo. at p. 26). But this last
statement—implying that Administrator Jackson received text messages from all such outside
groups and individuals—is a gross mischaracterization of her deposition testimony. That
testimony was clearly about former Administrator Jackson being grateful when her kids would
text her on her government number, as Landmark’s counsel clearly acknowledged at the
deposition itself:
Q. How many people had your government cell number, your 203 -- was it 203, 202?
A. 202.
Q. We'll call it 202.
A. Oodles, highly scientific.
Q. People in the environmental movement?
A. People in corporations, people in the environmental movement, people in government,
people in nonprofits, people in academia, my family. I had one phone number, so if my
kids wanted to call me, that's the number they would use.
Q. And if they wanted to text you, that was the number?
A. Absolutely, and I would be grateful when they did.
Q. As we all would.
Jackson Depo. at p. 26-27. Landmark’s attempt to mis-characterize this testimony as former
Administrator Jackson admitting that she was grateful when any person texted her is
disingenuous at best. Landmark had the opportunity to clarify this issue and make clear that
former Administrator Jackson texted with other individuals. But instead Landmark chose to rest
on (and mis-construe) this single passage of testimony. This single passage is plainly
insufficient to carry Landmark’s burden of proof, particularly given the ample amount of

17

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 18 of 40

testimony from former Administrator Jackson confirming that her practice was not to use text
messages for official business.
When the former Administrator resigned her position at the EPA and left her office in
February 2013, she surrendered her government-issued Blackberry to her Administrative
Assistant, Mr. Aaron Dickerson. As Mr. Dickerson, testified, he released the former
Administrator’s Blackberry to an individual in the Property Section. But Mr. Dickerson had no
reason to believe that the Blackberry was a repository likely to contain federal records or
information responsive to Landmark’s request, particularly given that he had asked Ms. Jackson
if she had any records responsive to Landmark’s FOIA request. Additionally, Ms. Jackson
testified that she did not use text messages for substantive business purposes and EPA Political
appointees were instructed upon arrival since at least 2009, “not to use any outside email account
to conduct official Agency business.” See Plaintiff’s Deposition Exhibit 55, entitled “Records
and ECMS Briefing” at p. 10.
To prepare the Blackberry to be surplused, EPA’s Property Section sanitized the
Blackberry. See Exhibit 2 (documenting action taken by Property Section to allow for
surplusing). The EPA has attempted to reconstruct what was on the former Administrator’s
Blackberry but has been unsuccessful. Hearns Decl., at ¶ 7. Thus, if former Administrator
Jackson had text messages on her Blackberry that were not otherwise preserved at the time she
left EPA when she surrendered her Blackberry, those text messages would now be lost. But
again, Landmark offers absolutely no evidence that any text messages existed, much less
evidence that such text messages were responsive to the underlying FOIA request. Further,
Landmark cannot show a culpable state of mind on the part of EPA. Mr. Dickerson thought that
his responsibilities ended with the EPA repository of the former Administrator’s secondary EPA

18

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 19 of 40

account (the “Richard Windsor” account), and he had no reason to believe that the Blackberry
was a repository likely to contain responsive materials, particularly since he had asked Ms.
Jackson if she had any records responsive to Landmark’s request. Dickerson Depo., at pp. 17,
29-32.

6

Finally, once again, even assuming that Landmark established the destruction of workrelated text messages generally (which it has not), Landmark certainly has not established the
destruction of text messages pertaining to proposed regulations. Landmark had the opportunity
to inquire about this point during discovery but chose not to. Furthermore, Landmark has not
established the necessary timing of any purported destruction—i.e., that the destruction occurred
after EPA had a duty to preserve the messages. Thus, Landmark has failed to carry its burden of
demonstrating the destruction of responsive records.
C) Landmark’s Failure to Prove that Any Relevant Materials were Destroyed is
Further Confirmed by the Discovery Testimony
Despite hours of deposition testimony, Landmark failed to demonstrate that relevant
information is likely to have been lost, which is what is required for spoliation. “[Parties] engage
in spoliation of documents as a matter of law only if they had ‘some notice that the documents
were potentially relevant’ to the litigation before they were destroyed.” United States v. Kitsap
Physicians Service, 314 F.3d 995, 1001 (9th Cir. 2002) (emphasis added). Landmark is unable to
demonstrate that EPA knew of the use of personal emails on a non-EPA account or of text
6

Landmark makes reference in its motion to the fact that the EPA had not, before this briefing, responded to it
regarding the former Administrator’s Blackberry or other actions with regard to preservation of text messages and
personal email accounts. Pl. Mot, 26-29. However, the EPA was primarily focused on defining the scope of the new
search in those communications. EPA stated in its letter to Landmark dated May 23, 2014, that “EPA hopes that this
communication provides Landmark with the context for [the] search, and with various amenable options to move
forward, and we hope to meet with you again, this time in-person, to come to an agreement on the additional search,
and to continue our discussions on the other issues you raise in your letter. The EPA is willing and thinks it would
be helpful to engage a magistrate judge to aid the parties in coming to an agreement and resolution on the search.”
See Exhibit 1A, May 23, 2014 Letter to Landmark at p. 6-7(emphasis added). The EPA has always been willing to
continue to engage Landmark in discussion about all of the issues pertaining to this case. Landmark, rather than
continuing that dialogue, chose to file the instant motion.

19

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 20 of 40

messages on a government-issued Blackberry that were relevant to the litigation and then
allowed them to be destroyed.
In spite of months of discovery and rigorous cross-examination of EPA officials,
Landmark never asked any of the witnesses whether they were ever in possession of any
documents, emails or text messages that were in any way relevant to Landmark’s FOIA request.
This is despite Landmark’s incessant criticism of EPA’s initial and supplemental search, which
EPA has already agreed to remedy by doing a third and altogether new search. However, when
asked whether she had any knowledge of political consequences being a factor in the
classification standards of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (“OIRA”), 7 Ms
Jackson stated:
I don’t have that knowledge. The interactions with OIRA would be about
the rule, and timing would be subject to trying to work through with OIRA
a long list of concerns they might have on any rule, and they could be
small things, but they could often be very large ones, and the way that
manifested to me was if they didn’t approve it, it wouldn’t go out, and
why was never apparent to us. We were never told that it was for political
reasons, so you would assume that it would be for substantive reasons.
There was never a memo or anything that said for these reasons we
are not going to approve this rule, for political reasons.
(Emphasis added)
Jackson Depo., at pp. 100-101.
Furthermore, Mr. Perciasepe testified that:
You know, I can only go on my own personal experience here. My couple
of times a month, not weekly, conversations with Cass Sunstein [of OIRA]
about technical issues that needed to get resolved, that’s what I did. He
never said to me in my calls or my meetings with him, Bob, please
don’t do this rule because somebody in the White House told me to do
it, [or] not to do it. That never happened. (Emphasis added)
7

The Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) is one of several statutory offices within the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB), which is located within the executive Office of the President (EOP). OIRA
reviews the substance of hundreds of proposed and final rules each year on behalf of the President before they are
published in the Federal Register. These reviews are authorized by Executive Order 12866, which was issued by
President Clinton on September 30, 1993.

20

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 21 of 40

Perciasepe Deposition dated February 21, 2014 Perciasepe II Depo., at p. 47 ECF, No. 46-22
(emphasis added).
In short, there is no basis in fact to presume that the documents that Landmark theorizes
were spoliated ever existed; to the contrary, the available evidence indicates that they did not,
and Landmark has failed to meet its burden to demonstrate otherwise.
D) Landmark Has Not Established Prejudice.
As Landmark acknowledges, a party seeking spoliation sanctions must establish
prejudice as a result of the destruction. See Pl. Mot. at 30. Here, Landmark does not even
attempt to make such a showing. And even assuming the destruction of documents, such
prejudice here is highly doubtful. Given the inherent nature of text messages—short, limited
communications sent on devices without access to full keyboards —it is highly doubtful that
substantive work was conducted through such a medium. Even if it were, moreover, the
substance of such work could easily be captured in other places or media that were preserved and
searched pursuant to FOIA. For example, the only specific alleged text message relied upon by
Landmark—a purported text between former Administrator Jackson and the CEO of a cotton oilabsorbent company—is memorialized in an email that was later produced pursuant to FOIA. See
Dickerson Depo. Exh. 5. This email and this alleged text, produced in response to a different
request, have nothing to do with rules or rulemaking and would not be relevant or responsive to
Landmark’s request. Landmark has made no serious attempt to establish prejudice, and all record
evidence indicates that there is no such prejudice. See Jackson Depo. at 21-22 (“I actually doubt
that there was a conversation via text message. There are lots of folks who reach out, and lots of
times I write back and say can you send an email or can you in some other way contact me if I
believed that it was more appropriately handled in that context because text messages, little short
21

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 22 of 40

messages are not really appropriate.”). Given Landmark’s complete failure to even discuss the
prejudice inquiry, Landmark’s motion should be denied.
E)

Landmark Has No Evidence that Unnamed “Other Senior Officials” Had
Responsive Documents That Were Destroyed

Landmark also argues that Defendant committed spoliation by failing to produce text
messages and personal emails of other senior officials assigned to Defendant’s headquarters. Pl.
Mot. at 2, 33. However, speculative allegations that spoliation occurred are insufficient to justify
sanctions. See Gerlich v. U.S. Dep’t of Justice, 711 F.3d 161, 171 (D.C. Cir. 2013) (“The
movant must make some showing that the destroyed evidence would have been relevant to the
contested issue.”) (quoting Kronisch, 150 F.3d at 127) (internal quotation marks omitted).
Here, Landmark asks the Court to infer that all senior officials used text messages and
personal email for official purposes, and therefore that Defendant’s failure to produce responsive
records constitutes spoliation. Not only is this purely speculative, but such a broad assumption
does not make the requisite showing of actual bad faith for a spoliation claim such as this. For
those inherent power sanctions that are fundamentally penal – dismissals and default judgments,
as well as contempt orders, awards of attorney’s fees, and the imposition of fines – a district
court must find clear and convincing evidence of the predicate misconduct. Heightened certainty
is called for both to guard against the misguided imposition of sanctions that are fundamentally
punitive and to reduce the risk of erroneously tarnishing a party’s reputation with findings of bad
faith or some other quasi-criminal wrongdoing. See Alexander, supra., quoting Shepherd.
Landmark asks the Court to infer both the existence and the relevance of evidence that
may or may not have been created by other officials, apparently based on the testimony of the
former Administrator that various individuals had her government cell-phone number. Jackson
Depo., at pp. 27-28. As explained above, Landmark’s assertion that the former Administrator
22

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 23 of 40

communicated by text for government purposes is not borne out by the record. The former
Administrator confirmed that her practice was not to use text messages for substantive official
business. Landmark cannot speculate that because outside groups had the government cell phone
number of the former Administrator, which, as explained above, was entirely reasonably given
the need for such groups to communicate in the event of emergencies such as the Deepwater
Horizon spill, that meant that other senior officials were texting on their government cell phones
regarding Agency business relevant to Landmark’s FOIA request. These allegations are far too
speculative and unsupported by the facts to justify a finding of spoliation. Furthermore, the
Court may not infer bad faith by the supposed existence of evidence that may or may not have
been created by EPA senior officials, based on the testimony of the former Administrator that
various individuals had her government cell phone number. Jackson Depo., at pp. 27-28. This is
not the kind of conduct that comports with a finding of bad faith, i.e., action that is substantially
motivated by an improper purpose, vindictiveness, obduracy, or mala fides. See Pacificorp,
2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 174593 *30 – 31 (D. Or., Dec. 10, 2012).
Further, contrary to Landmark’s assertion that EPA has done nothing to respond to its
concerns regarding “other senior officials,” EPA has, in fact, taken action to address Landmark’s
concerns and to determine whether any information responsive to the FOIA request at issue was
contained on government-issued blackberries as text messages or on personal email accounts.
Specifically, 17 senior EPA officials were contacted, who were identified as having information
related to Landmark’s 2012 FOIA request and who were employed by the EPA as of September
2014. Declaration of Larry Gottesman, (Gottesman Decl.) ¶4. As explained in Mr. Gottesman’s
declaration, these 17 individuals were asked to state whether, to the best of their recollection,
they used text messaging or personal (non-Agency) email accounts to send or receive

23

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 24 of 40

information regarding rules or rulemakings in the January to August 2012 time-frame. None of
these individuals recalled using text messaging to discuss proposed rules or rulemaking in the
time period of January – August 2012. Id., at ¶ 6-7. Based on his communications with these
senior officials, Mr. Gottesman found no indication that any text messages responsive to the
request from Landmark Legal Foundation existed. Id., at ¶ 6-8.
As to personal (non-Agency) email, Mr. Gottesman found no indication that there may be
additional information on personal email accounts responsive to the request from Landmark
Legal Foundation that is not already available on an Agency system. Id., at ¶ 6-8. A few
officials indicated that they would use their personal email if remote access to the Agency’s
server was not operating, or to facilitate printing information at home. Id., at ¶ 7. These actions
are in accordance with the EPA’s Interim Records Policy, which provides that when a nongovernmental system is used, the user is to forward any federal records into the EPA email
system so they can be captured for records management purposes, and for FOIA compliance.
See Exh. 3 to Hearns Decl. Mr. Gottesman’s declaration demonstrates that there is no indication
that there may be additional information on personal email accounts responsive to the request
from Landmark Legal Foundation that was not made available and preserved on an Agency
system. Again, EPA’s own Inspector General, at the request of Congress, specifically
investigated the use of personal email to determine if, as Landmark claims, personal email
accounts were used to evade FOIA and found that they were not. See U.S. Envtl. Protect.
Agency, Office of Inspector Gen., No. 13-P-0433, Congressionally Requested Inquiry Into the
EPA’s Use of Private and Alias Email Accounts (2013),
http://www.epa.gov/oig/reports/2013/20130926-13-P-0433.pdf . Landmark’s allegations are
baseless.

24

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 25 of 40

Moreover, as to mobile devices, the Agency has had public guidance since 2005, entitled
“Frequent Questions about Mobile and Portable Devices, and Records,” which expressly
provides that “[r]ecords created on your Mobile Device should be transferred to your office’s
recordkeeping system on a regular basis.” Exh. 1 to Hearns Decl. In February 2013, EPA
transitioned from its Lotus Notes email system to Microsoft Outlook365. Hearns Decl., ¶ 4. In
advance of that transition, all users who were issued Agency Blackberries, including the senior
officials subject to Landmark’s FOIA request, were informed of the transition and the need to
preserve information not stored on EPA servers in advance of the transition. Hearns Decl., at ¶¶
4-6. EPA explained to Blackberry users that all EPA email, calendar, contacts and “to do” data
are stored on EPA servers and would not be affected by the transition. Id., at ¶ 5. EPA’s
guidance instructed users to manually store on their computers material on their devices that was
not stored on EPA servers, such as pictures and applications. Id. Thus, prior to this transition,
the Agency instructed Blackberry users to store material that was located only on their
Blackberry (and not an EPA server) on their agency computer. EPA took these actions to ensure
that individuals were aware that their Blackberries would be reset to factory settings as part of
the transition to Outlook 365 and that information stored locally to the device should be saved.
Although there is no evidence that senior officials used text messages to discuss
rulemaking, which is the subject of Landmark’s FOIA request, in an effort to be proactive and
responsive to Landmark’s inquiries, the EPA nevertheless contacted Verizon, which was the
Agency’s primary Blackberry provider in 2012, to ascertain its record retention policies.
According to Ms. Hearns, whose staff contacted Verizon, the content of a text message is only
available for up to 10 days. Further, Verizon retains non-content information related to the text
messages, like the number from which a text was sent, for only one year from the date of the

25

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 26 of 40

text. See Hearns Decl., at ¶ 7.
Nonetheless, there is still no evidence that there may have been text messages responsive
to the request from Landmark, and substantial evidence that there were no such text messages.
Nor is there any evidence that there were responsive emails on personal accounts that have not
been placed into EPA systems. Thus, Landmark has failed to carry its burden to establish the
destruction of relevant information at a time when EPA was under a duty to preserve that
information.
II.

THE ARGUMENTS REGARDING THE PROCESSING OF THE FOIA
REQUEST ARE IRRELEVANT, BUT IN ANY EVENT CONFIRM THE
EPA’S GOOD FAITH ACTIONS.
The arguments regarding the EPA’s past actions processing the FOIA request are

irrelevant to the present issue—whether EPA destroyed relevant evidence, and had a culpable
state of mind when doing so. Nonetheless, even were the Court to consider the arguments
related to the underlying FOIA request, the EPA’s actions only confirm the EPA’s good faith.
A.

EPA’s Initial Search for Responsive Records (October 2012 – January 2013)

The EPA received Landmark’s FOIA request on August 21, 2012, in the National FOIA
Office in the Office of Environmental Information. The processing of Landmark’s FOIA request
was then assigned to the Office of the Executive Secretariat in the Office of the Administrator as
the lead office. As Mr. Wachter testified, the Office of the Executive Secretariat in the Office of
the Administrator is responsible for managing the correspondence and records of the Agency
Administrator. Newton Depo., at p. 80; Wachter Depo at pp. 10-15; 47-50; Wachter Sup. Decl.
dated July 21, 2013 ¶ 25a – f. Jonathan Newton, the FOIA Coordinator for the Office of the
Administrator, spearheaded EPA’s efforts to respond to Landmark’s request. While Landmark
seeks to establish an atmosphere of stalling and bad faith on the part of EPA by alleging that the

26

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 27 of 40

Office of the Administrator was excluded from the initial search, the FOIA request was actually
assigned to the Office of the Administrator and it was the lead office responsible for processing
this request. The testimony also reveals that from the very beginning of the process, both Mr.
Newton and Mr. Wachter interpreted Landmark’s FOIA request to include the Administrator,
Deputy Administrator, and Chief of Staff for EPA. Wachter Depo, at p 10, 83-85; 97, 99-101,
Newton Dep., at p. 9-10.
Plaintiff has, throughout this litigation, pointed to the internal instructions sent from the
FOIA Coordinator for the Office of the Administrator to the FOIA Coordinators for the other
EPA Program Offices 8 as the primary evidence that EPA purposefully excluded the
Administrator and Deputy Administrator. This argument is misleading and shortsighted. The
instruction sent from Mr. Newton to the FOIA Coordinators for the other EPA offices stated:
“Note: this request has been modified. The search only applies to Assistant Administrators,
Deputy Assistant Administrators, and Chiefs of Staff in EPA Headquarters.” Thus, the request
was limited to only the senior officials. Plaintiff makes much of this internal description of the
narrowed scope of their request but ignores the fact that no one at the EPA interpreted the
request as excluding the Office of the Administrator. See Shaw Decl., Exh. 1; Wachter Depo.,
at pp 83-84. As both Mr. Newton and Mr. Wachter have testified, there was no reason to add the
Administrator’s office, which included the Administrator, Deputy Administrator, and Chief of
Staff to this internal communication because Mr. Newton was the FOIA Coordinator for the
Administrator’s Office and it was the Administrator’s Office that was the lead office sending the
instructions on processing this FOIA request to the Program Offices. Newton Depo., at pp. 5, 911, 17-22; May 15, 2013 Declaration of Eric Wachter at ¶ 5; July 24, 2013 Supp. Decl. of Eric

8

“Program Office” is internal EPA shorthand for the various offices in EPA headquarters, each of which is headed
by an Assistant Administrator. (Wachter Suppl. Decl. ¶ 11).

27

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 28 of 40

Wachter at ¶ 8-14. The instructions were designed to provide guidance to the other offices that
also needed to search. There is no convincing evidence that this internal instruction, sent from
the Office of the Administrator to the EPA Program Offices, reflects bad faith or a decision to
intentionally exclude the Administrator or the Administrator’s Office, particularly in light of
multiple instances of sworn testimony to the contrary. Wachter Depo., at pp. 83-84 Newton
Depo., at pp. 9-11; 17-24.
Mr. Newton sent these instructions to his counterparts, the FOIA coordinators of the
Program Offices, to initiate the search for records from the Assistant Administrators, Deputy
Assistant Administrators, and Chiefs of Staff in the other Program Offices. While it is not known
exactly when each of the FOIA Coordinators for the various Program Offices communicated
with the assigned administrative assistants to begin the search in each of their respective offices,
it is clear that on November 14, 2012, Mr. Newton sent an email to Aaron Dickerson, Special
Assistant to then-Administrator Lisa Jackson, and Nena Shaw, Special Assistant to then-Deputy
Administrator Robert (“Bob”) Perciasepe, informing them that the request “requires a search of
the Administrator’s and the Deputy’s email accounts.” At the same time, Mr. Newton also
forwarded to these Special Assistants Landmark’s FOIA request and the search instructions he
had drafted and provided to the other FOIA coordinators. Newton Depo., at pp. 17-22;
Declaration of Nina Shaw Exh. 1 at p. EPA PROD1_0459.
Mr. Dickerson’s testimony demonstrates both the difficulties presented by Plaintiff’s
FOIA request and his good faith efforts to surmount those difficulties. Mr. Dickerson describes
in detail how he received and read the FOIA request and Mr. Newton’s instructions, and that he
could not determine how to search for responsive records. Dickerson Depo., at pp. 25, 19-25. So
he called Mr. Newton and asked him how to search for the responsive records. Mr. Newton

28

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 29 of 40

provided guidance to Mr. Dickerson and suggested that he ask the Administrator if she
remembered having any responsive records. As a result, Mr. Dickerson asked Ms. Jackson
personally if she had records, and, as the record shows, Ms. Jackson stated that she had no
responsive records that she could recall. But Mr. Dickerson also, to the best of his ability,
independently read the FOIA request and attempted to search for responsive records. Dickerson
Depo., at p. 25-28.
Mr. Dickerson testified that he conducted a search of Ms. Jackson’s secondary email
account (a non-public EPA account used for her official business) using the search terms draft
rule, draft regulation, draft policy, and proposed rule, proposed regulation, and proposed policy.
Dickerson Dep., at p. 27-28. He further testified that he reviewed approximately 200 potentially
responsive emails located using key words for substantive responsiveness to Plaintiff’s request.
He also testified that based on his understanding that Plaintiff was looking for communications
“with an outside organization,” he did not find records responsive to the first part of Plaintiff’s
request. Finally, Mr. Dickerson testified that he personally reviewed these emails to see if the
Administrator had received or given any direction to delay any type of rule or regulation until
after the election, and from what he saw, did not find any documents responsive to the second
part of Plaintiff’s request. Dickerson Depo., at pp. 28-29. On November 16, 2012, Mr.
Dickerson responded to Mr. Newton stating that he had found no documents responsive to the
request. Dickerson Depo., at pp 29-32; Dickerson Depo, Exh. 1. At most, this testimony
demonstrates only that Mr. Dickerson had attempted to respond to Plaintiff’s vague request to
the best of his ability. He may have been mistaken in his assessment, but there is no evidence of
any subversive instruction or plan on the part of anyone to delay the search for the
Administrator’s records.

29

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 30 of 40

In addition, contrary to Landmark’s assertion that no search of the Deputy
Administrator’s records had ever been performed before April 2013, Nena Shaw, his Special
Assistant, performed a search for responsive records as part of the initial search. 9 See
Declaration of Nena Shaw (Shaw Decl.), ¶¶ 9-12. She, like Mr. Dickerson, was confused and
unclear about how to go about conducting a search for the information responsive to Plaintiff’s
broad and vague request. Shaw Decl., ¶ 7. Her confusion, in addition to her multiple
responsibilities, resulted in a delay in processing the Landmark FOIA request. However, she
was never instructed not to search for responsive records or to otherwise delay the search. Id., at
¶ 6.
Because of her confusion, Ms. Shaw relied upon the search performed by Robin Kime in
the Office of Policy for guidance on how to conduct a search for records responsive to Plaintiff’s
request, which included search terms such as “hold,” “delay,” “election,” and “November” in
addition to Mr. Newton’s suggested terms of “draft,” “proposed,” “rule,” “regulation” or
“policy”. Id., at ¶¶9-10; and Exh 2 to Shaw Declaration. Ms. Shaw searched all locations which,
in her view, were likely to have responsive records, which were the Deputy Administrator’s EPA
email account and his computer. Id., at ¶9 She did not search for paper files, as the paper files
in the Deputy Administrator’s office were from 2010 or earlier, and there were no newer paper
files. She did not specifically search or request to search text messages, or personal email
accounts, as it was her understanding that any relevant material in those locations was to be
forwarded and maintained in EPA’s email system for search and production in response to

9

Plaintiff refers to the testimony of Mr. Newton, as well as the email records, to assert that Ms. Shaw never
performed this search. But Ms. Shaw was never deposed. Although Mr. Newton was apparently unaware of Ms.
Shaw’s efforts, she has provided a declaration, explaining both how she attempted to conduct this search and her
difficulties with using the collection database to upload responsive records. See Shaw Declaration, attached hereto.
Plaintiff did not ask to depose Ms. Shaw personally as to her conduct regarding the search for records from the
Deputy Administrator, relying instead on the testimony of Mr. Newton.

30

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 31 of 40

information requests and for records purposes. 10Id. Ms. Shaw found few records that she
deemed potentially responsive to Landmark’s request based on the criteria provided by Ms.
Kime and by her personal reading of the request. Id., at ¶10. Nonetheless, she attempted to
upload these records into the collection database, and when unable to do so from her own
computer, forwarded Mr. Newton’s instruction email containing the link to the Deputy
Administrator’s email account in another attempt to upload the records. Id., at ¶11-12. But when
Ms. Shaw was unable to use the link to upload the records into the database, she printed out the
potentially responsive records. Unfortunately, this technical difficulty meant that the records
were not in the collection database for the February production. Id.
Nevertheless, at the end of its initial search, EPA produced records that included 1,134
pages in 123 documents released in full (including many records of communications with third
parties), 1,678 pages in 196 documents with redactions, and an index of documents withheld
under FOIA exemptions. ECF No. 30 at p. 6, ¶ 17. This release represented a good faith effort to
process Plaintiff’s FOIA request and provide responsive records based on the information that
EPA had at the time. EPA does not deny that due to a variety of issues, including a broadly
worded, vague and confusing FOIA request and technical difficulties in processing the request,
the very first search resulted in a lack of responsive documents in the collection database from
the Administrator and Deputy Administrator. EPA’s voluntary and good faith attempts to correct
this inconsistency led to the supplemental search for responsive records beginning in April 2013.
As a result, additional documents were produced. But as the evidence demonstrates, at no time
was the Administrator or Deputy Administrator excluded from the initial search.

10

The testimony of Mr. Perciasepe bears this out -- he forwarded information from his personal email account into
EPA systems for records and FOIA purposes. (Perciasepe I Depo., at p.16.)

31

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 32 of 40

B. EPA’s Supplemental Search for Additional Responsive Records and Final
Production (April – May 2013).
Landmark mischaracterizes EPA’s supplemental search for responsive records from the
Administrator and Deputy Administrator as an exercise in deception. This could not be further
from the truth. As described above, EPA made a good-faith initial effort to respond to Plaintiff’s
vague, broad, confusing request, and then, when EPA determined that the initial effort resulted in
a potentially insufficient search, EPA immediately notified Plaintiff and the Court of the issue
and without delay worked to rectify the search and produce any additional records to Plaintiff as
quickly as possible. As Landmark itself notes in its Motion, EPA contacted Landmark within a
day of its realization that there may have been additional responsive records to inform Landmark
that there may be more responsive records. (Pl. Mot. at 20).
EPA’s response to Plaintiff’s first interrogatory and the accompanying records produced
in response to Plaintiff’s document requests demonstrate in further detail what occurred. (Pl. Ex.
at 6, Resp. to Interrog 4; Pl. Ex. At 3, Resp. to Interrog 1). When the search for records was
carefully reviewed as part of finalizing the pleadings for the April 30, 2013 filing deadline in this
case, EPA (including EPA lawyers) noticed that the documents previously collected, reviewed,
and produced from EPA program offices were inconsistent with the “no records” response that
EPA had received from Aaron Dickerson of the Office of the Administrator on November 16,
2012. (Pl. Ex. at 3, Resp. to Interrog 1). The documents were inconsistent with a no records
response because EPA had produced records from its program offices in the February 27, 2013
response that contained the secondary email address of the former Administrator 11 Therefore,

11

Indeed, a significant portion of the discussion and conference with Landmark on March 21,
2013 was regarding whether to unredact the secondary account of the former Administrator (the
32

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 33 of 40

EPA conducted an additional search of the records of the Administrator, Deputy Administrator,
and Chief of Staff in a good faith effort to ensure a complete and adequate production to
Plaintiff. This additional search, using very broad key words, identified more than 4500
potentially responsive records, which, after review, yielded approximately 365 additional
documents responsive to Landmark’s request.
Landmark’s additional allegations and insinuations regarding the supplemental search are
unreasonable, inconsistent with the facts and do not illustrate bad faith. For example, Landmark
characterizes the instruction from Mr. Newton that “universal search terms may be difficult to
establish” as incorrect, or indicative of bad faith, because the Office of General Counsel provided
a search string to use for the supplemental search. (Pl. Mot. at 20). But the search string
developed by the Office of General Counsel to be used on the Administrator’s, Deputy
Administrator’s, and Chief of Staff’s accounts in the supplemental search was simply: (draft OR
proposed) SENTENCE (rule OR regulation OR policy). This string was not created anew for the
supplemental search; rather, it is simply Jonathan Newton’s original suggestion that potential key
words could include “draft or proposed” within the same sentence as “rule, regulation, or
policy,” written in Lotus Notes syntax. This search string was known to be overbroad, and
returned many thousands of non-responsive records. EPA, in an effort to demonstrate good faith,
manually reviewed these many thousands of records from the Administrator, Deputy
Administrator, and Chief of Staff. However, as EPA has informed Landmark, running this
overbroad and overinclusive search string on the accounts of every senior official was not and is
not necessary, because EPA’s program offices uploaded their responsive records into the

Windsor.Richard@epa.gov email account), which EPA unredacted after former Administrator
Jackson departed the Agency as there was no longer a privacy interest in this address upon her
departure.
33

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 34 of 40

database, as described in Mr. Wachter’s Declarations regarding the initial search. Going
forward, EPA has already committed to undertake yet a third search for responsive records, this
time with search terms agreed upon by the parties. Exh. 1.
Similarly, Landmark’s assertion that Mr. Newton’s instruction to ask about these records
as “it is the type of memo/policy that someone should remember” is somehow in bad faith, “ad
hoc” or improper. Pl. Mot. at 17, 20. But Landmark’s own testimony before this Court
demonstrates that, in fact, asking individuals what they remember, in addition to suggested
terms, is how Landmark envisioned EPA processing its vague request. (April 9 Status Conf.
Trans. at 9-10; Landmark Email to EPA). Asking the Administrator if she had any recollection
of any documents that would satisfy Landmark’s FOIA request, and then following-up with an
electronic search, is hardly demonstrative of bad faith. 12
EPA released the additional records it had discovered in its supplemental search less than
two weeks later, on May 13, 2013, and filed its Motion for Summary Judgment on May 15,
2013, with an explanation of the need for an additional search for records and with a full
accounting of the additional records discovered, including a complete Vaughn index of all 465
records withheld in full or in part. A perusal of the Vaughn index demonstrates that many of the
responsive records produced as a result of the supplemental search in April 2013 were also
produced as part of the original search and production. 13
Furthermore, despite Plaintiff’s claim that EPA purposefully excluded relevant
conversations with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) or with the Office of
12

In addition, Landmark has requested EPA to go to Senior Officials personally in the third search and ask them
how different environmental groups are referred to within the EPA, amongst other things.
13

For example, EPA-17, produced on February 27, 2013, contained the same information as EPA-286, produced on
May 13. Similar examples include EPA-4, produced on February 27 (containing the same information as the laterproduced EPA-282), EPA-74 and EPA-75 (which contain the same information as the later-produced EPA-268),
EPA-198 (containing the same information as the later-produced EPA-347), and EPA-185 (containing the same
information as the later-produced EPA-288).

34

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 35 of 40

Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) in the White House, or that EPA has purposefully failed to produce
relevant briefing material, it is a fact that EPA located responsive information that included
records of conversations with OMB, 14 located records of conversations with White House
officials, 15 and located records of briefing materials that were prepared for meetings. 16
Nevertheless, going forward, EPA has agreed to manually review each and every record from the
briefings@epa.gov account (the so-called “briefing books”) for material responsive to Plaintiff’s
request as part of the negotiated third search for responsive records. (Exh. 1; see also April 9
Transcript, page 12, 8-11).
Landmark claims that Mr. Wachter’s testimony in his May 15, 2013 Supplemental
Declaration about the search being potentially insufficient was false. (Pl. Mot. at 21). But the
testimony and documents in this matter support Mr. Wachter’s statement in his Declaration that,
as part of finalizing the documents for the Court’s April 30, 2013 filing deadline, EPA
determined that the search for documents from the former Administrator, Deputy Administrator,
and Chief of Staff may have been insufficient and that another search may be required. EPA
informed Landmark of precisely what it knew on April 30, which was that the search for records
from the Administrator and Deputy Administrator may have been insufficient, and that
additional time would be necessary. Landmark accuses EPA of lying by omission, but has failed
to establish that Mr. Wachter knew of any details about the search of the Deputy Administrator’s
records. What he did know was that the former Administrator’s records may have to be searched

14

See, for example, EPA-245 and EPA-246.
See, for example, EPA-21, EPA-393 through EPA-397, and EPA-294.
16
See, for example, EPA-302 through EPA-305, described as an email chain pertaining to an upcoming meeting and
briefing for former EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson in regard to proposed rulemakings and corresponding
interaction with the Office of Management and Budget; or EPA-328, which is one of many examples of briefing
material prepared for Bob Perciasepe to prepare for a meeting with the Environmental Council of the States.
Material from the Administrator’s “Daily Reading File” was also provided to briefings@epa.gov as “briefing book”
material, and was produced to Plaintiff. See, e.g. EPA-432, EPA-435, and EPA-448, among others.
15

35

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 36 of 40

again and therefore the previous search was potentially inadequate. Wachter Depo., at pp. 57-60;
69-72.
Despite Landmark’s self-serving characterization of events, EPA’s attempts to, as quickly
as possible, supplement the initial search is indicative that the agency was operating in good
faith. The bottom line was that the first search was found to be insufficient and a second search
was done to correct that potential insufficiency.
C.

EPA has committed to a third search for responsive records, which goes well
beyond the basic requirements of FOIA, in an effort to demonstrate good
faith.

Currently, EPA has agreed to a new and exhaustive third search. The attorneys for the
parties have met face to face, and exchanged email correspondence regarding the multiple search
terms that will be used for the new search. See Exh.1. These search terms identify 24 specific
rules that were of interest to Plaintiff, 25 specific “outside parties” that Plaintiff identified as of
interest, and 8 additional specific terms related to offices or individuals within the White House
that are of apparent particular interest. In order to develop this search, because Landmark was
unable to provide search terms for its request, EPA undertook a wide-ranging research project
interviewing multiple EPA staff members in the Office of General Counsel and the Office of
Policy. Exh. 1. EPA has agreed to perform this search, requiring no less than 72 independent
search strings, and to report back to Plaintiff on September 22, 2014 with its findings. See Id.
This search is currently underway.
The EPA has agreed to the search terms in spite of the fact that these terms are overly
broad and will undoubtedly produce thousands of pages of unresponsive documents to be
manually reviewed. This review will undeniably take longer than 30 days. The EPA estimates
that it will take at least 180 days to review all of the documents for responsiveness and

36

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 37 of 40

application of exemptions, although a more precise time frame cannot be provided at this time.
The EPA has begun its search regarding Lisa Jackson, the former Administrator’s briefing
materials from the account briefing@epa.gov and on August 29, 2014, sent Landmark its first
production from that account. 17 The EPA will continue to work with Landmark regarding the
scope of the agreed upon new search and the documents produced as a result of that search. Also,
as stated previously, EPA would not object to the assignment of a magistrate to assist in the
resolution of any additional issues regarding the search for responsive documents to Landmark’s
FOIA request.
III.

LANDMARK IS NOT ENTITLED TO THE REMEDIES SOUGHT.

Landmark asks this Court to order a litany of sanctions in addition to its demand for
attorney’s fees and costs. See Pl.’s Mot. Sanctions 36-37. Landmark also asks the Court to
appoint an independent monitor, provide notice to any litigant across the country since 2009 of
potential spoliation of records in unrelated FOIA requests, produce all responsive records from
EPA’s renewed and negotiated search within 30 days, and direct the EPA’s independent
Inspector General to conduct an investigation of EPA’s response to this request.
A district court does have “a great deal of discretion in exercising its inherent powers to
fashion an appropriate sanction, but because of their potency, such powers must be exercised
with restraint.” D’Onofrio, 2010 WL 3324964, at *5 (citing Chambers v. NASCO, Inc., 501 U.S.
32, 43-46 (1991)). A court’s inherent power encompasses the authority to impose sanctions
including fines, awards of attorney’s fees and expenses, contempt citations, disqualifications or
suspensions of counsel, and drawing adverse evidentiary inferences or precluding the admission
of evidence. See Shepherd, 62 F.3d at 1475. As discussed above, however, the Court’s exercise

17

It is anticipated that the parties will confer about the briefing materials that were already produced at a later date;
however, that issue is not currently before this Court.

37

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 38 of 40

of these punitive measures is also limited by sovereign immunity. See Alexander, 541 F. Supp.
2d at 301. Landmark provides no authority that would support its requested sanctions in the
event the Court made a spoliation finding. The role of the independent monitor sought by
Landmark exceeds the authority permitted under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
To the Extent that Landmark Seeks a Special Counsel Investigation, Such an Order
Would be Premature Even if the Court Determined that Spoliation Had Occurred.
To the extent that Landmark seeks a Special Counsel investigation under 5 U.S.C. §
552(a)(4)(F), such an order is unwarranted, particularly at this time. This Court made clear that
the “written findings” required to initiate such an investigation may only be issued after the court
has (1) ordered the production of improperly withheld records, and (2) imposed attorney’s fees
against the United States. Aug. 18, 2014 Mem. Op. 14 n.8, ECF No. 39; accord Perry v. Block,
684 F.2d 121, 125 n.19 (D.C. Cir. 1982). This Court has taken neither of these actions, and
should not at this time. In Jefferson v. Reno, 123 F. Supp. 2d 1, 3 (D.D.C. 2000), the court noted
that sanctions under Subsection (a)(4)(F) are only proper after written findings have been issued
and the agency has failed to produce records in violation of a court order. The court went on to
note that “[s]anctions under section 552(a)(4)(F) and (G) are premature because the Court's
findings necessary to impose such sanctions must await the production of improperly withheld
records.” Id. (citing Perry, 684 F.2d at 125 n.19). These decisions suggest that the sanction of
referral to the office of Special Counsel is reserved for instances in which a plaintiff in a FOIA
action substantially prevails, the court orders the production of improperly withheld documents,
and the defendant then fails to produce those documents. This is not the case here.
Landmark’s attempts to obtain private oversight over EPA’s record-keeping practices are
precluded. That does not mean that federal employees may evade their record-keeping (and
disclosure) obligations simply by conducting work on private equipment or accounts. In such
38

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 39 of 40

situations, both the Agency and NARA have enforcement duties to recover records, see 44
U.S.C. § 2905, 3106, and agencies may also undertake internal corrective measures against
employees who violate record policies. See Crew v. SEC & Exch. Comm’n, 916 F. Supp. 2d 141,
149 (D.D.C. 2013) (noting that agencies may take “internal remedial steps” and “intra-agency
corrective actions” in response to records violations (citing Armstrong v. Bush, 924 F.2d 282,
296 (D.C. Cir. 1991)(Armstrong I)). In Kissinger v. Reporters Committee for Freedom of the
Press, the Supreme Court explained that the Federal Records Act establishes only one remedy
for the improper removal of a “record” from the agency: “The head of the agency is required. . .
.to notify the Attorney General if [she] determines or ‘has reason to believe’ that records have
been improperly removed from the agency.” 445 U.S. 136, 148 (1980) (quoting 44 U.S.C. §
3106). Here Landmark seeks to inject itself into this administrative process, which is not only
precluded but also unwarranted. Indeed, EPA officials have acted in good faith with regard to
Landmark’s FOIA request.
Additionally, Landmark provides no relevant authority in support of its request that the
Court order Defendant to provide notice to all adverse litigants since 2009 of a finding that
potential spoliation occurred. Such relief far exceeds any remotely appropriate sanction. Lastly,
because the parties have agreed to a schedule for the future production of records, the requested
order compelling production within thirty days is not necessary to ensure the collection and
production of documents in response to the agreed-upon new search.
CONCLUSION
Despite extensive discovery, Landmark fails to meet its evidentiary burden to
demonstrate that responsive, relevant information was likely spoliated in this case. The facts on
the record demonstrate EPA’s good faith efforts to meet its disclosure obligations, and do not

39

Case 1:12-cv-01726-RCL Document 55 Filed 09/12/14 Page 40 of 40

warrant the intrusive relief that Landmark requests. For the foregoing reasons, the Defendant
requests that Landmark’s spoliation motion be denied.

Respectfully submitted,

RONALD C. MACHEN JR. D.C. BAR # 447889
United States Attorney
For the District of Columbia

DANIEL F. VAN HORN, D.C. BAR # 924092
Chief, Civil Division

By:

/s/
__________________________
HEATHER D. GRAHAM-OLIVER
Assistant United States Attorney
Judiciary Center Building
555 4th St., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20530
(202) 252-2520
heather.graham-oliver@usdoj.gov

Of Counsel:
Jennifer Hammitt
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Office of General Counsel, General Law Office

40

