Case 1:07-cv-00652-LMB

Document 30

Filed 02/29/2008

Page 1 of 6

IN THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS
CHRISTOPHER SEAN VAN WINKLE
and DAVID ALLEN COX,
Plaintiffs,
v.
THE UNITED STATES,
Defendant.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

Judge Baskir
No. 07-652C

DEFENDANT’S RESPONSE OPPOSING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO
STRIKE DEFENDANT’S REPLY OR ALTERNATIVELY FOR LEAVE TO
FILE A RESPONSE
The United States submits this response opposing, in part, the
plaintiffs’ Motion to Strike Defendant’s Reply in Support of Point Blank’s
Motion to Intervene, or in the Alternative, For Leave to File a Response.
Plaintiffs’ motion to strike the government’s reply should be denied. We do
not oppose plaintiffs’ request for leave to file a response to the
government’s reply insofar as the plaintiffs’ response is limited to a surreply
governed by RCFC 7.2(b) and paragraph 11 of the Court’s Special
Procedures Order (SPO 11), rather than a response governed by RCFC
7.2(a).

1

Case 1:07-cv-00652-LMB

I.

Document 30

Filed 02/29/2008

Page 2 of 6

PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO STRIKE SHOULD BE DENIED
A.

No Basis in RCFC 7 for Motion to Strike

Nowhere in RCFC 7 is the government prohibited from filing a reply to
the plaintiffs’ response. In fact, RCFC 7.2(b) clearly states that “[r]eplies to
responses or objections shall be filed within 7 days after service of the
response or objection.” Furthermore, RCFC 7.2(b) does not reserve filing
of a reply only to a moving party, a third-party, or to a party that filed a
response to a third-party’s motion.
B.

No Reason to Strike Under SPO 11

SPO 11 states that “[a] moving party’s Reply brief is limited to
responding to matters contained in the other party’s opposition brief. A
party wishing to advance new arguments in a reply brief must request leave
of Court. Requests are disfavored.” The first sentence of SPO 11 does not
apply to the government because the government is not the moving party.
Rather, the moving party, if it can be considered a party at all before the
Court rules on its motion to intervene, is Point Blank. Thus, in this
situation, SPO 11 limits only Point Blank’s reply brief to matters contained
in plaintiffs’ response.
The government notes, however, that under SPO 11, “[a] party
wishing to advance new arguments in a reply brief must request leave of
Court.” To the extent that the government is considered to have raised
2

Case 1:07-cv-00652-LMB

Document 30

Filed 02/29/2008

Page 3 of 6

“new arguments,” it has prepared and has filed contemporaneously with
this Response, a Request for Leave to File Reply in Support of Proposed
Third Party Defendant’s Motion to Intervene. As discussed in the request
for leave, the issues involved in Point Blank’s Motion to Intervene as
opposed by the plaintiffs hold a recurring importance to the government as
it litigates patent infringement cases that involve third-party indemnitors.
Thus, should the court view such a request as necessary, for the reasons
outlined in its request for leave, the government requests that the Court
grant it leave.
Thus, for the reasons provided above, and in view of the
government’s now pending Request for Leave to File Its Reply in Support
of the Proposed Third Party Defendant’s Motion to Intervene, the
government requests that the Court deny plaintiffs’ motion to strike the
government’s reply.
II.

PLAINTIFFS SHOULD BE GRANTED LEAVE TO FILE A
SURREPLY ONLY
The government observes that the plaintiff is requesting as alternative

relief, that it be given an opportunity to file a response to the government’s
reply. The government filed a reply in support of the Proposed Third
Party’s Motion to Intervene. The government did not file a motion. Thus,
plaintiffs seek to file a surreply.
3

Case 1:07-cv-00652-LMB

Document 30

Filed 02/29/2008

Page 4 of 6

The government does not oppose the plaintiff’s request for leave to
respond to the government’s reply. The government, however, asserts that
plaintiffs’ response to the government’s reply should take the form of a
surreply rather than a response.
Allowing plaintiffs to file a surreply will afford plaintiffs an opportunity
to address any arguments that the plaintiffs have not had an opportunity to
address. Requiring plaintiffs to file a surreply, rather than a response, will
also require plaintiffs to address only the arguments presented by the
government, and do so in seven days rather than in fourteen days, as is
allowed for responses under RCFC 7.2(a). In reality, the plaintiffs will have
had more than the seven days to prepare their surreply because the period
for reply will run from the time the Court rules on the plaintiffs’ motion rather
than February 25, 2008, the day the government filed its reply. In addition,
because the government did not file a motion but rather a reply, the
plaintiffs are not entitled to address matters not contained in the
government’s reply without leave of the Court, as would be allowed were
plaintiffs granted leave to file a response. See RCFC 7.2(b); SPO 11.
Plaintiffs assert that the government should have submitted its
arguments as a response in support of Point Blank’s motion to intervene.
RCFC 5.3(a) does not contemplate that a party could file a brief in support

4

Case 1:07-cv-00652-LMB

Document 30

Filed 02/29/2008

Page 5 of 6

of another party’s motion. RCFC 5.3(a)(2) contemplates only the filing of
opposing briefs or memoranda. See RCFC 5.3(a)(2) (titled “Opposing Brief
or Memoranda”) Thus, plaintiffs’ assertion that the government was
required to file its reply as a Motion in Support of Point Blank’s Motion to
Intervene is not in keeping with the Rules of the Court. Moreover, the
United States did not have anything to which to respond before the
plaintiffs filed their response on February 11, 2008. It would not advanced
either the resolution of Point Blank’s motion or the government’s interest in
the Court’s treatment of third-party intervenors generally, for the
government to attempt to predict the content of plaintiffs’ opposition and
then respond to these predicted arguments on February 11, 2008 before
receiving plaintiffs’ opposition. As allowed under RCFC 7.2(b), the United
States timely filed its reply to the plaintiffs’ response on February 25, 2008.
Even if the government had filed its arguments in a response in
support of plaintiff’s motion to intervene rather than as a reply to plaintiffs’
response, the plaintiffs would only have had the right to reply to the matters
contained in the government’s response. SPO 11. Plaintiffs would not
have had the right to advance new arguments without first requesting leave
of the Court under SFO 11. Finally, if the Court does grant plaintiffs’
request for leave to file a response to the government’s reply, the

5

Case 1:07-cv-00652-LMB

Document 30

Filed 02/29/2008

Page 6 of 6

government reserves the right under RCFC 7.2(b) and SFO 11 to reply to
plaintiffs’ response.
Thus, for the reasons given above, the government requests that the
Court deny plaintiffs’ motion to strike the government’s reply. Furthermore,
for the reasons given above, the government does not oppose plaintiffs’
motion to respond insofar as plaintiffs’ response to the government’s reply
takes the form of a surreply governed by RCFC 7.2(b) and SPO 11 rather
than a response governed by RCFC 7.2(a).
Respectfully submitted,
February 29, 2008

JEFFREY S. BUCHOLTZ
Acting Assistant Attorney General
JOHN J. FARGO
Director
s/ Conrad J. DeWitte, Jr.
CONRAD J. DEWITTE, JR.
Trial Attorney
Intellectual Property Staff
Commercial Litigation Branch
Civil Division
U.S. Department of Justice
Washington, DC 20530
Telephone: (202) 307-0459
Fax: (202) 307-0345
Counsel for Defendant

6

