Case 1:08-cv-10686-WGY Document 62 Filed 06/04/14 Page 1 of 8

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS
_________________________________________
)
)

DARYL OVERKA et al,
and all others similarly situated,

)
)
)

Plaintiffs,

)

Civil Action No. 08-10686

)
v.
)
)
AMERICAN AIRLINES, INC.,
)
)
Defendant.
)
_________________________________________ )

PLAINTIFFS’ OPPOSITION TO AMERICAN AIRLINES’ MOTION TO DISMISS

The Court should deny American’s motion to dismiss.1 As explained below, in
Northwest v. Ginsberg, -- U.S. –, 134 S.Ct. 1422 (2014), the U.S. Supreme Court broke
with its earlier precedent and expanded the exception to preemption that it first
announced in American Airlines v. Wolens, 513 U.S. 219 (1995). Under this newly
expanded exception, Plaintiffs’ claims escape preemption under the Airline Deregulation
Act (“ADA”), 49 U.S.C. § 41713(b)(1), because they are essentially challenging
American’s “self-imposed” obligations, rather than external “state-imposed” obligations
(even though they are not stated as “simple breach of contract claims”). While rejecting
the plaintiff’s argument that common law claims are never subject to preemption, the
Supreme Court in Northwest made clear that, in order to determine whether common
law claims are preempted, courts must engage in this analysis to determine whether

1

This case has been stayed since November 2011 due to American’s bankruptcy filing. Plaintiffs
here filed a proof of claim in the bankruptcy court in New York. In April 2014, by agreement of the parties,
the bankruptcy court entered an order that the adjudication of the claims here proceed in this Court. Any
judgment in this case would then be subject to distribution pursuant to the bankruptcy plan that has
already been approved by the bankruptcy court.

1

Case 1:08-cv-10686-WGY Document 62 Filed 06/04/14 Page 2 of 8

(regardless of whether they are “simple breach of contract claims”) the claims challenge
“self-imposed” or “state-imposed” obligations.
No court has yet grappled with this new standard because the Northwest
decision has only recently been issued. This argument has not been raised or disposed
of by the First Circuit or the Supreme Court in the related litigation brought by skycaps
in DiFiore v. American Airlines, C.A. No. 07-10070, 646 F.3d 81 (1st Cir. 2011), or
Brown v. United Airlines, C.A. No. 08-10689, 720 F.3d 60 (1st Cir. 2013).2 Applying this
new standard, discussed further below, this Court should deny American’s motion to
dismiss and allow the claims here to proceed because they challenge American’s
breach of its own self-imposed undertaking – namely, representing to customers that it
was charging a tip for skycaps in the form of a $2 per bag charge on curbside check-in.3

2

Following the Supreme Court’s ruling in Northwest, Plaintiffs in Brown and Mitchell v. U.S.
Airways, C.A. No. 08-cv-10629, raised this argument with this Court, but the Court denied their motion
without comment. Plaintiffs understand the Court likely did not address the argument based on the
posture of those cases at the time the argument was raised – final judgment had entered, and the
Supreme Court had denied certiorari. (Here, in contrast, the claims in this case are still live, and final
judgment has not entered.) However, this argument has not been substantively considered by any court,
including the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court issued Northwest on April 2, 2014, and it conferenced
the Brown case on April 4, 2014; thus, there was not time between these two events for Plaintiffs to raise
this argument with the Supreme Court and urge remand for consideration under this newly articulated
standard in Northwest.
3

Plaintiffs agree with American that, under DiFiore and Brown, the primary prior argument they
have raised to defeat preemption in these cases (i.e. that their statutory and common law claims
challenging American’s $2 per bag charge did not sufficiently relate to prices, routes, or services) has
been rejected by the First Circuit, and this Court is now bound by that precedent. That argument has not,
however, been addressed by the Supreme Court because the Supreme Court denied certiorari in both
DiFiore and Brown. Plaintiffs hereby restate and incorporate by reference that argument in full in order to
preserve it for further review, including potential review by the Supreme Court, should the Supreme Court
take this matter up at last in this litigation. See DiFiore, C.A. No. 07-10070 (Docs. 24, 194, 203), and
Brown, C.A. No. 08-10689 (Docs. 38, 47, 62, 65) (as well as the First Circuit and Supreme Court briefing
in those cases).
Plaintiffs also agree with American that the secondary argument they have raised to defeat
preemption (i.e. that common law claims simply do not fall within the scope of the ADA’s preemption
clause) has been rejected by the Supreme Court in Northwest. Plaintiffs therefore do not press this
argument.

2

Case 1:08-cv-10686-WGY Document 62 Filed 06/04/14 Page 3 of 8

On April 2, 2014, in Northwest v. Ginsberg, 134 S.Ct. 1422, the U.S. Supreme
Court held that a particular common law claim—breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing—was preempted by the Airline Deregulation Act. In doing so, the
Supreme Court did not adopt a broad-brush conclusion that all common law claims
brought against airlines (even those related to prices, routes, or services) are
preempted by the ADA. Instead, the Court engaged in a detailed analysis to reach its
conclusion. This analysis was a break from previous Supreme Court precedent. The
analysis the Court employed considered whether the airline was alleged to have
violated a state-imposed obligation or instead a self-imposed obligation. Previously, in
American Airlines v. Wolens, 513 U.S. at 233, the Court had carved out an exception to
ADA preemption for “simple breach of contract claims”. However, in Northwest, the
Court expanded the Wolens exception beyond “simple” breach-of-contract claims to all
common law claims that attempt to bring airlines to task for violating their own selfimposed obligations, regardless of whether those allegations can be stated as simple
breach-of-contract claims. Thus, the Court decided for the first time in Northwest that
other common law claims may implicate self-imposed obligations and that an analysis is
required to determine whether a common law claim is based on an alleged violation of a
self-imposed obligation, or instead a state-imposed obligation.
In Wolens, the Supreme Court held that breach of contract claims would not be
preempted by the ADA because “terms and conditions airlines offer and passengers
accept are privately ordered obligations and thus do not amount to a State’s
‘enact[ment] or enforce[ment] [of] any law, rule, regulation, standard, or other provision
having the force and effect of law’”. 513 U.S. at 228-29 (internal citations omitted).

3

Case 1:08-cv-10686-WGY Document 62 Filed 06/04/14 Page 4 of 8

Thus, the Supreme Court held that “[a] remedy confined to a contract’s terms simply
holds parties to their agreements.” Id. at 229 (emphasis added). The Supreme Court
described its holding to be that “the ADA permits state-law-based court adjudication of
routine breach-of-contract claims”, id. at 232 (emphasis added), and that “’the Act
should not apply to simple breach of contract claims’”, id. at 233 (emphasis added).
However, in Northwest, the Supreme Court engaged in a more nuanced analysis
of the types of claims that would be preempted or escape preemption under the
exception that was first announced in Wolens. In Northwest, the Supreme Court
analyzed whether a claim for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing would
be preempted. The Court’s analysis turned on “whether [the plaintiff’s] implied covenant
claim is based on a state-imposed obligation or simply one that the parties voluntarily
undertook.” Northwest, 134 S.Ct. at 1431. In so doing, the Court expanded on the
exemption that it began in Wolens; it explained that, while “[the airline] urge[s] us to hold
that implied covenant claims are always pre-empted, and [plaintiff] suggests that such
claims are generally not pre-empted, … the reasoning of Wolens neither dooms nor
spares all such claims.” Id. The Court went on to explain that, going forward, in order
to determine whether a common law claim escapes preemption under the Wolens
exception, courts would need to analyze not simply whether the claim is a “simple” or
“routine” breach-of-contract claim, as the Court had referred to in Wolens, but instead
whether the basis of the claim may be “regarded as a state-imposed obligation” on the
one hand, or a “self-imposed obligation” on the other hand. In Northwest, the Court’s
analysis turned on the question of whether the State “allow[s] people to disclaim the
obligation of good faith”. Concluding that the state law at issue there did not allow it to

4

Case 1:08-cv-10686-WGY Document 62 Filed 06/04/14 Page 5 of 8

be disclaimed, the Court held that the breach of good faith and fair dealing claim in that
case was based on a state-imposed obligation and thus preempted.
Here, as the Court will recall, Plaintiffs’ claims for unjust enrichment are quasicontractual claims. They are not based on any state-imposed obligation; instead, they
are based on how the airline itself represented the charges to passengers. Plaintiffs
allege that the airline held out the $2 per bag charge to the public as a tip for the
skycaps—because it made the charge look and feel like a tip (in that it was the same
amount passengers were used to tipping the skycaps, it was cash only, it was collected
directly by the skycaps, and despite this outward appearance, it did not adequately
disclose to passengers that the charge was not in fact going to the skycaps as their tip).
Indeed, in denying the motion to dismiss the unjust enrichment claims in the similar
case of DiFiore v. American Airlines, 483 F. Supp. 2d 121, 128 (D.Mass. 2007), the
Court held that the pertinent question was whether “the $2 fees are really tips meant for
the skycaps.”
Although the plaintiffs in DiFiore and Brown did make an attempt to explain that
their claims should fall under the Wolens exemption, that argument was not viable prior
to Northwest, since the claims the skycaps have pressed are not “simple” or “routine”
breach of contract claims.4 Instead, the claim is a more nuanced claim that the airline
has violated its own self-imposed obligations, and that allegation is set forth through the
quasi-contractual unjust enrichment claim. Although this argument was not viable under
Wolens (prior to Northwest), the argument now has merit in light of the Supreme Court’s
4

Indeed, the First Circuit in Brown lumped all common law claims together in stating that “It
cannot be gainsaid that common law functions as a set of binding standards of conduct.” Brown, 720
F.3d at 65. The First Circuit thus did not predict the Supreme Court’s turn in Northwest to recognize that
some, but not all, common law claims are based on state-imposed standards.

5

Case 1:08-cv-10686-WGY Document 62 Filed 06/04/14 Page 6 of 8

decision in Northwest to expand the exemption to common law claims that more
generally hinge on the airline’s own self-imposed obligations.
Although not stated as a simple breach of contract claim, the unjust enrichment
claim in this case is indeed a claim of the airline violating its own self-imposed
obligation. Although American will certainly try to claim that it never agreed that the $2
charge was a tip for the skycaps, that question would be for a jury to determine. A jury
could well determine that American established the $2 charge in the way that it did with
the intention that passengers would believe it to be a tip for the skycaps, and pay it
because they believed it was a tip for the skycaps. Thus, the jury could believe that the
American entered an agreement with passengers (for which the skycaps are third party
beneficiaries) that the $2 charge would go to the skycaps, but that American simply
breached its end of the agreement.
In a case filed against the car service Uber, raising a similar gratuity-related
claim5, a federal court in California recently recognized this argument, and denied the
defendant’s motion to dismiss a claim for breach of implied-in-fact contract. See
O’Connor et al v. Uber Technologies, Inc. et al, C.A. No. 13-3826 (Doc. 58) (N.D. Cal.
Dec. 5, 2013). The court recognized that the plaintiff drivers could establish an impliedin-fact contract between the defendant and customers, for which the plaintiffs were third
party beneficiaries, by demonstrating:
(1) facts and/or circumstances implying Uber’s intent to collect gratuity from
passengers as part of the service for which passengers are paying; and (2) facts
and/or circumstances demonstrating the intent of Uber and the passengers to
5

In the Uber case, the plaintiffs alleged that it looked to passengers that a gratuity is included in
their fare, but in fact, the entire gratuity (if any) is not remitted to the drivers. In Uber, the defendant has
denied that a gratuity is in fact collected.

6

Case 1:08-cv-10686-WGY Document 62 Filed 06/04/14 Page 7 of 8

benefit the drivers, or the intent of passengers to benefit the drivers which Uber
must have understood.
Uber argues that the factual allegations fail to demonstrate an intent to enter into
an implied agreement to remit tips to drivers, and that the allegations actually
demonstrate the opposite because the Complaint alleges that it was Uber’s
practice not to tender the full amount of gratuities to Plaintiffs. Such a practice
could demonstrate a lack of intent to enter into an agreement, or it could instead
manifest a breach of an implied agreement, the existence of which is evidenced
by Plaintiffs’ allegations. . . . All of these are circumstances surrounding the
alleged contract formation manifesting passengers’ intent that the tips included in
their fares would benefit drivers. Meanwhile, Uber’s alleged statements to
passengers that “gratuity is included,” combined with tipping customs and the
expectations of passengers, likewise demonstrate Uber’s intent to collect
passenger tips and to do so for the benefit of drivers. . . . Even if Uber did not
subjectively intend for the gratuity to benefit the drivers, the company “must have
understood that the promisee [passengers] had such intent,” and the “objectively
reasonable expectation of the promise [passengers]” would be that Uber
intended to give the gratuity to the drivers.

O’Connor, at 19-20. In this case, unjust enrichment as alleged by the plaintiffs is quite
similar to the breach of implied-in-fact contract claim alleged by the Uber drivers, since it
is based, not on the express words used by the parties, but their intentions as
demonstrated through their actions.
Thus, the Court should deny American’s motion to dismiss. Under the state of
the law as it came to exist on April 2, 2014, when the Supreme Court decided the
Northwest case, the skycaps’ claims are not preempted because, while not “simple” or
“routine” breach-of-contract claims, their claims are based on a violation of the airline’s
own self-imposed obligation.6

6

As noted above in note 3, Plaintiffs also urge the Court to deny American’s motion to dismiss on
the ground that the claims in this case challenging American’s $2 per bag charge did not relate to prices,
routes, or services, and Plaintiffs incorporate by reference the full argument that has been made on that

7

Case 1:08-cv-10686-WGY Document 62 Filed 06/04/14 Page 8 of 8

Respectfully submitted,
DARYL OVERKA, et al.
By their attorneys,

DATED: June 4, 2014

/s/ Shannon Liss-Riordan
Shannon Liss-Riordan, BBO # 640716
LICHTEN & LISS-RIORDAN, P.C.
100 Cambridge Street – 20th Floor
Boston, MA 02114
(617) 994 – 5800

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on June 4, 2014, I caused a copy of this document to be served by
electronic filing with all counsel of record.

/s/ Shannon Liss-Riordan
Shannon Liss-Riordan, Esq.

point in the related DiFiore and Brown litigation. Plaintiffs recognize, however, that the First Circuit
rejected that argument, and Plaintiffs reassert the argument here in order to preserve it for further review.

8

