UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS

EL PASO DIVISION

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA )

)

Vv. )

)
NATIVIDAD ZAVALA-ZAVALA ) EP-17-M.J-4462-MAT
BLANCA NIEVE VASQUEZ-HERNANDEZ ) EP-17-MJ-4499-MAT
ELBA LUZ DOMINGUEZ-PORTILLO ) EP-17-MJ-4409-MAT
JOSE FRANCIS YANES-MANCIA ) EP-17-MJ-4461-MAT
MAYNOR ALONSO CLAUDINO-LOPEZ ) EP-17-MJ-4456-MAT

DEFENDANTS' AMENDED RESPONSE & OBJECTION
TO GOVERNMENT'S MOTION TO AMEND/CORRECT
THE COURT'S OPINION

Parents-Defendants Elba Luz Dominguez-Portillo, Natividad Zavala-Zavala,
Jose Francis Yanes-Mancia, Blanca Nieve Vasquez-Hernandez, and Maynor Alonso
Claudino-Lopez, by and through the undersigned attorney, file this response and
objection.

To recapitulate: on November 7, 2017, Parents-Defendants filed a motion to
dismiss. On November 27, 2017, at a hearing on the motion to dismiss, Magistrate
Judge Miguel A. Torres denied the Parents-Defendants' motion. On December 1,
2017, Magistrate Torres found the Parents-Defendants guilty of illegal entry
misdemeanors under 8 U.S.C. 0x00A7 1325 and sentenced them to probation. On
December 14, 2017, the Parents-Defendants filed their notice of appeal. On January

5, 2018, Magistrate Torres issued a written opinion of his denial of the Parents-

Defendants' motion to dismiss. On January 17, 2018, approximately 2 weeks after
the written decision by Magistrate Torres, almost 1 month after the Parents-
Defendants filed their notice of appeal, and almost 2 months after Magistrate Judge
Torres heard arguments on the motion to dismiss and denied the motion orally, the
government filed a "motion to amend/correct the court's opinion" by Magistrate
Torres that denied the Parents-Defendants' motion to dismiss, essentially contending
that the minors involved in these cases may not be the Parents-Defendants' real
children.

On January 24, 2018, Defendants filed a "Response and Objection to
government's motion to amend/correct the court's opinion." On January 31, 2018,
the government filed a "Motion to Seal" contending that "Exhibit C" (Forms I-213)
attached to the Defendants' Response contained "information subject to privacy
protections" like "A numbers, birthdates, and addresses." Before the Defendants had
an opportunity to respond to the government's motion, Magistrate Judge Torres
granted the government's motion and issued an order directing Defendants to "file an
amended response." The next day, February 1, 2018, the government filed a motion
to withdraw tts "Motion to Seal." Under Magistrate Torres' directives, the Defendants
now file their "amended response" and notify the Court that "Exhibit C" (Forms I-213)
will be filed under seal.

As previously stated, the government's motion is meritless and is simply a
poor legal strategy designed to create a dispute on an issue the government purposely
and intentionally declined to press throughout all the proceedings, including at trial.

For the following reasons, the government's motion must be denied.
2
First, the government's motion is unreasonably untimely. As stated above,

 

the Parents-Defendants' motion to dismiss was denied at a hearing on November 27,
2017. On December 14, 2017, the Parents-Defendants filed their notice of appeal
and, subsequently, on January 5, 2018, Magistrate Torres entered the written order
of his denial of the Parents-Defendants' motion to dismiss. Now, after trial and
almost 2 months after Magistrate Torres' decision, the government files, without
citing any authority, a motion that pertains to a non-dispositive pre-trial
motion that was resolved in the government's favor. Furthermore, the
government's requested amendment does not affect Magistrate Torres' final finding
and judgment of guilt. This sneaky maneuver by the government is unreasonable
and untimely.

Second, the government waived the determination by Magistrate Judge
Torres that the minors involved in these cases are the children of the Parents-
Defendants. The government never adequately presented the issue to Magistrate
Torres for consideration. The government did not address or properly articulate an
objection nor did it provide any facts, legal citations, arguments or analysis to
contradict Magistrate Judge Torres' determination that the minors involved were the
children of the Parents-Defendants. The government failed to pursue its vague
claim that the children were not the defendants' children. For example, at the
motion to dismiss hearing, the government simply made vague assertions like:

As-as far as due process goes, Your honor, again, to the extent that, you know,

they have parental rights, assuming that they are the parents-and the

government doesn't necessarily know is another big point here, is, you
3
know, when you have people coming across the Rio Grande River with children,
you don't necessarily know that this person is the child's parent, even though
they may say that. It's-and it's very difficult to conform that type of
information in this type of circumstance, which is the point we were making in
our brief.
See Transcript of Motion to Dismiss Hearing at page 27 attached here as Exhibit A.
However, simply stating that the government "doesn't necessarily know" whether the
minors involved are the children of the Parents-Defendants is not the same as
providing facts, legal citations, arguments or analysis to contradict Magistrate Judge
Torres' determination that the minors involved were the children of the Parents-
Defendants. The government intentionally failed to pursue or press on the issue.
In fact, when given a chance by Magistrate Torres to do so, the government
intentionally abandoned the issue by not providing support for its contention. At the
motion to dismiss hearing, the following colloquy between Magistrate Torres and
government took place:
THE COURT: So the government's default is that they're not the parents?
MS. FRANCO-GREGORY: No, Your Honor. But-and, again, we're going so
far away from---from the issues at hand, which is a criminal prosecution of a
misdemeanor illegal entry into the United States. And the government would
re-urge what is contained within the brief, that the issue as far as providing
them notice as to the status of the child that they were accompanied with is
not ripe at this time.
See Transcript of Motion to Dismiss Hearing at pages 46-47 attached as Exhibit B.
Clearly, the government elected to pursue the 1325 charge and failed to pursue the

vague claim that the children were not the Parents-Defendants' children.

Throughout all the proceedings, the government failed to provide evidence and

4
support to its contention, thus, it waived that issue. United States v. Beaumont, 972
F.2d 553, 563 (5th Cir. 1992). Federal courts are courts governed by rules of evidence
and simply stating "we do not know" or "is not ripe" does not equate to providing facts,
arguments or analysis to contradict that the minors involved in these cases are the
children of the Parents-Defendants. That statement in itself does not prove or
disprove anything. A proper objection requires a distinct statement of the matter
objected and the specific ground of the objection. See Fed. R. Evid. 103(a)(1); United
States v. Williams, 990 F.2d 507, 511 (9th Cir. 1993).

The government certainly had an incentive to show that the minors involved
were not the Parents-Defendants' children. Throughout all the proceedings, the
Magistrate Judge referred to the minors as the Defendants' children and to the
Defendants' parental rights. Ifthe minors involved were not the real children of the
Defendants, the government would have charged Defendants with smuggling
felonies, not just petty misdemeanors. Instead, the government stipulated at trial
to an exhibit of an official government document that it is stamped as a "credible fear
claim" and refers to the minors as the Parents-Defendants' children. See Forms I-
213 filed under seal as Exhibit C. Certainly, the government's stipulation to
documents stating that the minor children were the children of the defendants
contradicts the government's current claim, i.e., that the minors are not the
Parents-Defendants' children. The fact that the government stipulated to
documents stating that the children were the children of the Parents-Defendants

waives that issue. Period. The words of the parties manifest their intent or
5
position with respect to a waiver. International Ins. Co. v. RSR Corp., 426 F.3d
281, 300 (5 Cir. 2005).

After hearing testimony from the Parents-Defendants throughout all the
proceedings, from the detention hearing to sentencing, Magistrate Judge Torres
correctly determined and expressly stated throughout all proceedings that
these cases implicated the Parents-Defendants' children. The government simply
did not offer any evidence to rebut such determination by the Magistrate Judge.

Third, Magistrate Torres' determination that these cases involved the
children of the Parents-Defendants is supported by the record and is not clearly
erroneous. See 28 U.S.C. 0x00A7 636(b)(1)(A). Here, the five Parents-Defendants
provided oral] testimony to Magistrate Torres, who as the trier of fact, heard from
them with respect to their children throughout all the proceedings. They also
provided documents written by immigration officers (who are government
employees/agents and had face to face contact with them), which indicate that: (1) the
minors involved were the Parents-Defendants' children, (2) the Defendants and their
children left their Central American countries to escape violence, and (3) the
Defendants made a "credible fear claim." See under seal Exhibit C; see also
Transcript Pages of Detention Hearing at pages 10-12 in Zavala-Zavala; 7-9 in
Vasquez-Hernandez; 8-11 in Dominguez-Portillo; 10-12 in Yanes-Mancia; and 11-13
in Claudino-Lopez attached here as Exhibit D; and see also Transcript Pages of
Trial/Sentencing Hearing at pages 43-46 attached here as Exhibit E.

Throughout all the proceedings, Magistrate Torres heard testimony that all
6
defendants were accompanied by their minor children when they entered the country.
Magistrate Judge Torres, as the trier of fact, was there to observe and weigh the
credibility of the witnesses. He heard testimony from all five Parents-Defendants at
the detention and sentencing hearings concerning the separation from their children.
The Magistrate Judge heard these witnesses' testimony concerning their fear of not
knowing the whereabouts of their children! In addition, the Magistrate Judge also
reviewed the stipulated evidence submitted at trial. Here, the record clearly shows
that Magistrate Judge Torres correctly determined that these cases involved the
Defendants' children. That is why Magistrate Torres: (1) referred to the minors as
the Defendants' children throughout all the proceedings, and (2) stated on the record
that he reached out to the Office of the Federal Defenders Office to handle these cases.
With respect to the Defendants' serious concerns of being separated from their minor
children, Magistrate Torres stated on the record: "I don't think there is a lot of reason
to doubt the sincerity of those expressions in most cases." See Transcript of Status
Conference dated November 1, 2017 at page 5 attached here as Exhibit G.

United States Magistrate Judge Torres would not waste federal resources if
he did not find the Defendants' claim concerning their children credible. The fact is
that Magistrate Judge Torres did find the Defendants' claim regarding the separation
from their children credible. Such finding by Magistrate Judge Torres, based upon
the evidence, was key in his determination that these cases involved the separation
of Parents-Defendants from their minor children. On the record, he stated that he

is aware of the government's practice regarding the family separation issue and of
7
the cases, like the Flores case, that document that particular issue. Magistrate
Judge Torres' determination that these misdemeanor cases involved the children of
the Parents-Defendants is supported by the record and is not clearly erroneous. A
clearly erroneous standard of review is applied for nondispositive findings by a
magistrate judge. United States v. Raddatz, 447 U.S. 667, 673 (1980).

Fourth, the government's claim of lack of knowledge regarding the family
separation in these cases is, at best, disingenuous. It is a common practice for the
government to separate the parents from their children in these type of cases. The
government has separated families in this district before! Flores v. Lynch,
828 F.3d 898 (9t Cir. 2016), Bunikyte ex. Rel. Bunikiene v. Chertoff, N. 1:07-cv-00164-
SS 2007w11074070, at *1 (W.D. Tex. Apr. 9, 2007), and In re Hutto Family Dt. Ctr.,
No. 1:07-cv00164-SS, Dkt. 94, (W.D. Tex. Aug. 26 2007) document this practice by the
government. Aware of the government's practice of separating families and the case
law involving the Flores Settlement litigation concerning this issue, Magistrate
Torres was justified in requesting that the parties brief the issue.

Fifth, the court should be mindful of the prior manipulative tactics used by
the government in these cases. For example, the government took custody of the
Parents-Defendants' children without providing information about the specific
whereabouts of these key material witnesses and then offered the Parents-
Defendants plea agreements with a sentence of time served. This tactic gave the
false impression that the Parents-Defendants could put this matter behind them and

be quickly reunited with their children. See Transcript of Motion For Continuance
8
at pages 5-17 attached to this Response as Exhibit F. The government knew these
Parents-Defendants could obtain a time served sentence without a plea agreement
since they were charged with misdemeanors offenses and did not have any prior
criminal or immigration record. The government also filed a trial motion, i.e, the
Lafler/Frye motion, while the Parents-Defendants' pretrial motion to dismiss was
pending, as a mechanism to bypass the resolution of the motion to dismiss stage.
And now, without any supporting evidence, the government's lawyer contends that
the minors involved may not be the children of these Parents-Defendants. However,
lawyers owe duty of candor to the tribunal and a prosecutor for the government
cannot argue facts or inferences that are not supported by the evidence in the case or
that the prosecutor knows are false or has very strong reason to doubt. United States
uv. Corona, 551 F.2d 1386, 1390 (5 Cir. 1977). Here, the record shows that the
government's attorney is familiar with the cases involving the Flores Settlement
litigation (he argued that it did not apply here because these are not civil cases), thus,
he is clearly familiar with the family separation cases. In addition, the evidence
(comprised of testimony and exhibits) supports the magistrate judge's determination
that the minors involved are the Defendants' children. Accordingly, the
government's argument that the minors involved may not be the Defendants'
children, as if this was not a practice by the government or the case law documenting
such practice did not exist, simply displays a lack of candor. Period!

The government's vague contention that the minors may not be the real

children of the Parents-Defendants is simply an unfair, sneaky and calculated method
9
by the government to preserve an issue for appeal that was never preserved and is
not proper for the magistrate's reconsideration. And, this Court should be mindful
of what the Supreme Court said over 80 years ago with respect to a United States
Attorney's use of unfair, sneaky and calculated methods:

The United States Attorney is the representative not of an ordinary party
to a controversy, but of a sovereignty whose obligation to govern impartially is
as compelling as its obligation to govern at all; and whose interest, therefore,
in a criminal prosecution is not that it shall win a case, but that justice shal}
be done. As such, he is in a peculiar and very definite sense the servant of the
law, the twofold aim of which is that guilt shall not escape or innocence suffer.
He may prosecute with earnestness and vigor-indeed, he should do so. But,
while he may strike hard blows, he is not at liberty to strike foul ones. Itis as
much his duty to refrain from improper methods calculated to produce
a wrongful conviction as it is to use every legitimate means to bring about a
just one.

Berger v. United States, 295 U.S. 78, 88 (1935).
For the foregoing reasons, the government's motion must be denied.

Respectfully submitted,

MAUREEN SCOTT FRANCO

Federal Public Defender

`sf

SERGIO GARCIA

Assistant Federal Public Defender
Western District of Texas

700 E. San Antonio, D-401

El Paso, Texas 79901

(915) 534-6525

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on the 6 day of February 2018, I electronically filed the
foregoing with the Clerk of Court using the CM/ECF system.
/s/

 

Sergio Garcia
Attorney for Defendant

10
