KLEVANSKY PIPER, LLP
A Limited Liability Law Partnership

SIMON KLEVANSKY 3217-0
ALIKA L. PIPER 6949-0
NICOLE D. STUCKI = 9151-0
841 Bishop Street, Suite 1707
Honolulu, Hawaii 96813
Telephone: (808) 536-0200
Facsimile: (808) 237-5757

E-Mail: sklevansky@kplawhawaii.com;

apiper@kplawhawaii.com;
nstucki@kplawhawaii.com

Attorneys for DANE S. FIELD, Trustee
of the bankruptcy estate of Sea Hawaii

Rafting, LLC

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

FOR THE DISTRICT OF HAWAII

In re:
SEA HAWAII RAFTING, LLC,

Debtor.

 

CHAD BARRY BARNES,
Appellant,
V.
DANE S. FIELD, TRUSTEE,

Appellee.

 

 

85538_2.doc

Civil No. 16-00230-LEK-KSC

On Appeal from:

United States Bankruptcy Court for the
District of Hawaii

Case No. 14-01520

(Chapter 7)

REPLY MEMORANDUM IN
SUPPORT OF MOTION TO
DISMISS APPEAL;
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

Related Docket Nos. 14 & 23

Hearing
Date: December 5, 2016

Time: 10:30 a.m.
Judge: Hon. Leslie E. Kobayashi
REPLY MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF
MOTION TO DISMISS APPEAL

Dane S. Field, Trustee of the estate of Sea Hawaii Rafting, LLC, and
Appellee in respect of this appeal, files this reply memorandum in support of the
his motion to Dismiss appeal.

I. INTRODUCTION.

Briefly stated, the appeal was filed from the Bankruptcy Court's
Order authorizing the sale of an inflatable "Zodiac" raft, and trailer, used
commercially for visitor excursions from the small boat harbor on the Island of
Hawaii. The appellant has filed his appellate brief, and the Trustee has filed his
answering brief.

By his separate motion, the Trustee has moved to dismiss the appeal
as moot, on the independent bases that (i) the authorized sale has been
consummated with no stay having first been imposed, and the Bankruptcy Court's
order provides, consistent with Section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C.
0x00A7363(m), that unless first stayed, any appeal from the order shall not affect the
validity of the sale, Onouli-Kona Land Co. v. Estate of Richards (In re Onouli-
Kona Land Co.), 846 F.2d 1170, 1172 (9" Cir. 1988); Algeran, Inc. v. Advance
Ross Corp., 759 F.2d 1421, 1423-24 (9" Cir. 1985), and Gi appellant is without
standing to contest the sale, as the Bankruptcy Court has entered orders, from

which no appeal has been filed, determining that appellant has no unsecured claim

85538_2.doc -2-
against the bankruptcy estate, and that the appellant's alleged lien claim against the
raft is without value. See, e.g., Duckor Spradling & Metzger v. Baum Trust (In re
P.R.T.C., Inc.), 177 F.3d 774, 777 (9" Cir. 1999)(constitutional standing requires
proof of "injury in fact"); Kekona v. Smith (In re Smith), 98 F.3d 1346 (9" Cir.
1996) (unpublished); Fondiller v. Robertson (In re Fondiller), 707 F.2d 441, 442
(9" Cir. 1983)(prudential standing in bankruptcy requires a direct and adverse
pecuniary injury).

The appellee cites no exceptions to the statutory authority of Section
363(m), and the cases that implement it, and cites no authorities to establish his
standing in light of his failure to appeal from final orders of the Bankruptcy Court
determining he has neither an unsecured nor a secured claim against the estate. His
arguments are thus irrelevant to the motion. Nonetheless, and though his
arguments are somewhat confused, we will attempt to comment upon them, so as
not to leave the Court with the impression that there is any merit to them.
(Because appellant's arguments run together, it is possible we've missed some -
but we nonetheless submit that they fall so short of the mark that they are all

without merit and can be rejected.)

85538_2.doc -3-
Il. LEGAL ARGUMENT.
a. The Congressionally Enacted Laws of Bankruptcy Apply In This

Court in This Proceeding, Just As They Apply in the Bankruptcy

Court.

This proceeding arises within the Sea Hawaii bankruptcy case, on
appeal from a sale order entered by the Bankruptcy Court in that case. To the
extent the Bankruptcy Court properly entered its orders pursuant to the law
applicable in the case, as it has here, its order should be affirmed.

The appellant, however, predicates much of his response upon the
premise that bankruptcy law, even when enacted by Congress in Title 11 of the
United States Code, such as Section 363 of the Code, which authorizes Bankruptcy
Courts (or District courts, when presiding in a bankruptcy case) to sell property of
the estate, and Section 363(m), which expressly provides that an appeal from a sale
shall not affect the sale if it has not first been stayed, is somehow limited to mere
`land' or "mercantile" transactions, Opposition at 3, not applicable to the claims
and interests of `admiralty' or seaman. The appellant argues the historic roots of
the bankruptcy law are different than the historic roots of admiralty. Whatever
these roots may be, however, the law in the Bankruptcy Court, and this Court, is
that law established in the United States, under the Constitution and the United

States Code. As the Court of Appeals has determined, in Onouli-Kona Land Co..,

846 F.2d at 1172, and again most recently in Adeli v. Barclay (In re Berkeley), 834

85538_2.doc -4-
F.3d 1036 (9" Cir. 2016),' when, as here, the bankruptcy court under 11 U.S.C.
0x00A7363(m) has authorized a sale of estate property free of liens and interests, and the
property is sold without a stay having first been entered, the appeal cannot affect
the sale, and therefor is moot. Id. The appellant has not disputed that the raft was
an asset of the Sea Hawaii bankruptcy estate; he does not contend that the
bankruptcy court did not make the requisite order, and he does not contend that the
sale has not closed. He argues that he sought a stay, which was denied, and
implicitly admits the obvious - that no stay has been imposed. Section 363(m) is
quite clear:
(m) The reversal or modification on appeal of an authorization
under subsection (b) or (c) of this section of a sale or lease of property
does not affect the validity of a sale or lease under such authorization
to_an entity that purchased or leased such property in good faith,

whether or not such entity knew of the pendency of the appeal, unless
such authorization and such sale or lease were stayed pending appeal.

Hence, pursuant to that provision, Onouli-Kona Land Co., and In re Berkeley,
supra, the appeal is moot. There is no exception under the Code for the sale of a
raft. So when appellant is "asking this Court to find that the situation involving a

parcel of land is vastly different than a vessel", Opposition, at 4-5, which situation

 

' Inexplicably regarding Berkeley, supra, appellant argues it is

inapplicable because decisions of the Bankruptcy Appellate Panel are not
controlling as precedent upon this Court. The argument has no application here,
as Berkeley was a decision by a panel of the Court of Appeals.

85538 2.doc -~5-
allegedly was the cause of appellant's injury, he's just asking the Court to ignore
the federal statute and decisional law of the Court of Appeals.

His argument that it is different because the raft was purchased by a
company formed by Sea Hawaii's former principal has no merit. In In re Berkeley,
supra, at *3, the Court of Appeals confirmed that the bankruptcy mootness rule
applies even when the sale is to a party to the bankruptcy proceeding, provided that
the objecting party has failed to seek and obtain a stay of a sale order pending
appeal.

Appellant's argument that United States v ZP Chandon, 880 F.2d 233
(9" Cir. 1989) commends a different result is also without merit. In Chandon,
seamen were afforded an admiralty lien for unpaid wages earned during a pending
Chapter 11 bankruptcy, and so it was consistent with both admiralty law and
applicable bankruptcy law to recognize their accrued secured claim for unpaid
wages. In this case the appellant's injury occurred some two years prior to the
bankruptcy, and because appellant failed to verify his amended complaint in the
District Court before Judge Kay, his inchoate lien failed to attach to the raft.
Madeja v. Olympic Packers, 310 F.3d 628, 637 (9" Cir. 2002) (appellants failure to
verify their complaint as to claims in controversy deprived the court of in rem
jurisdiction, and accordingly no lien for the claims could attach to the vessel).

Accordingly, Judge Kay and Judge Faris each concluded that appellant's claim did

85538_2.doc -6-
not attach to the raft. Appellant appealed from Judge Kay's ruling, but did not
seek or obtain a stay of that ruling. Appellant did not appeal from Judge Faris'
ruling. Hence his argument, without merit in any event, is also foreclosed because
he has not obtained a stay from either Court's ruling, and in any event because he
did not appeal from Judge Faris' final order on that issue.

b. Appellant's Argument that Judge Kay Erred in His Rulings Is
Immaterial to This Appeal, and In Any Event Is Without Merit.

As set forth above, Judge Kay, in the separate admiralty action,
correctly determined that appellant's inchoate lien upon the raft never attached
because appellant failed to verify his complaint, a procedure necessary under
Admiralty Supplemental Rule C(2)(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and
the Madeja case, supra.

Appellant gratuitously attacks Judge Kay for alleged "repeated refusal

66.

to come up with an amount" of an award for appellant's "maintenance and cure'",
and contemplates the Court of Appeals telling Judge Kay to "make up his mind

already", which appellant contends would allow him a lien upon the raft. Putting

 

* As the Trustee has only made a limited appearance in the case before

Judge Kay, and then only since the bankruptcy commenced, we have limited
comment on this argument - but from counsel's limited appearance it is our
impression that Judge Kay determined that the amount of a contested award for
"maintenance and cure" required an evidentiary hearing, not merely a submission
of appellant's proffered witness declaration. We note our impression for the Court,
but do not take a position on the particular procedure required to determine the
damage amount.

85538_2.doc -7-
aside the disrespectful character of his argument, since neither Judge Kay's ruling
nor Judge Faris' ruing rested upon absence of a liquidated amount of Barnes'
claim', but rather upon appellant's failure to secure in rem jurisdiction so as to
have his claim attach, the argument is irrelevant to the issue before this Court.

Appellant's further argument, that he was not required to verify his
complaint because other affidavits in the case substituted for the required
verification, is also without merit. The Rule requires a verified complaint to
establish jurisdiction, and does not provide for exceptions. Indeed in Madeja,
supra, at 637, the Court of Appeals rejected appellants' similar argument that
"their claims should be considered in light of the trial testimony for the purpose of
verification." If trial testimony cannot substitute for proper verification, then
extrinsic affidavits offer no better substitute.

In any event, neither argument is material to the motion, because
neither addresses the consequence under Section 363(m) of appellant's failure to

secure a stay of the sales order, and neither addresses appellant's failure to appeal

 

Incidentally, the Bankruptcy Court provided Barnes an opportunity to
establish the amount of his claim, through the expedited "estimation" procedure
established under the Bankruptcy Code. Barnes counsel submitted no response to
the Trustee's motion to estimate Barnes' claim, and the Bankruptcy Court then
entered an order determining Barnes had no such claim. Barnes did not appeal
from that order.

85538_2.doc -8-
from the Bankruptcy Court's orders determining he was without either unsecured
or secured claims against the estate or the raft.
c. Appellant's Argument that the Sale Should be Stayed Pending

Disposition of the Ninth Circuit's Decision on his Appeal from
Judge Kay's Decision is Untimely and Without Merit.

The raft and trailer have been sold to the purchaser, and the stay order
had not been stayed before the sale was closed. Appellant now argues that the sale
should be "stayed", after the fact, until the Court of Appeals has ruled upon his
appeal from Judge Kay's ruling. The argument is irregular in that the matter in this
appeal is the merit of the Bankruptcy Court's order, not the merit of the District
Court's ruling in another case (although that ruling as well is meritorious). In any
event, to request that the transaction should be stayed after the fact is untimely, and
for that reason should be denied.

Appellant makes a somewhat disjointed argument that there is a
constitutional defect in the Court enforcing Section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy
Code, and that Judge Kay incorrectly concluded that he was constrained by the
automatic stay imposed by Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code, because, Barnes
contends, these provisions may be enforced by a bankruptcy court, and not by a
District Court. What Judge Kay understood, and what appellant fails to
understand, is that both the District Court and the Bankruptcy Court enforce the

requirements of federal law. Section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code, as well as

85538_2.doc -9-
Section 363(m) of the Bankruptcy Code, are substantive provisions of federal law,
and will be enforced by both District Courts and Bankruptcy Courts. The
unrelated questions of jurisdiction to enter final judgments in litigation, as between
District Courts and Bankruptcy Courts, as reflected in Stern v. Marshall, 564 U.S.
462, 131 S.Ct. 2594 (2011) and Wellness International Network, Ltd. v. Sharif, ---
USS. --- 135 S.Ct. 1932 (2015), do not bear upon whether bankruptcy law or other
law shall apply, but instead upon whether certain cases* must proceed to final
judgment before a District Court. They offer no support for appellant's misguided
argument that if this matter were before a District Court, bankruptcy law or
doctrines would not apply. As it is, the Bankruptcy Court deferred to the District
Court to determine in the first instance whether the appellant had a lien upon the
raft - and the District Court determined, just as the Bankruptcy Court later

determined, that the appellant had not perfected a lien upon the raft.

 

* These cases establish that where a claim is made by a debtor estate

against a third party, which claim would ordinarily exist at common law or state
law, the defending party is entitled, absent consent, to have final judgment
determined by an "Article III' Court, that is, by a District Court - although that
Court would still be sitting " in bankruptcy". As succinctly stated in Wellness,
supra, 135 S.Ct. 1932, at 1941 (citing Stern), 'Article III prevents bankruptcy
courts from entering final judgment on claims that seek only to "augment" the
bankruptcy estate and would otherwise exist without regard to any bankruptcy
proceeding." (citations omitted.) They have no bearing upon the bankruptcy
court's authority to determine the validity or value of claims made by third parties
against the bankruptcy estate or its property, and do not circumscribe the
bankruptcy court's supervision of the bankruptcy stay.

85538 2.doc -10-
