Case 1:05-cr-00004-IMK-JES Document 122 Filed 11/16/09 Page 1 of 7 PageID #: 399

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA
DANIEL WILSON TESTERMAN,
Petitioner,
Criminal No.

1:05CR4
(Keeley)

Civil No.

1:09CV74

v.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

Respondent.
UNITED STATES’
RESPONSE TO 2255 PETITION
INTRODUCTION
Now comes the United States of America and Sharon L. Potter, United States Attorney for
the Northern District of West Virginia, by Sherry L. Muncy, Assistant United States Attorney for
said District, and files the UNITED STATES’ RESPONSE TO 2255 PETITION as follows:
The United States has no evidence that this is a second or successive petition. Moreover, the
Petition appears to be timely filed.
The Petitioner (hereafter “defendant”) was convicted by a jury of one count of possession
of child pornography and three counts of distribution of child pornography. He had retained counsel
for his trial. The same counsel then filed an appeal to the Fourth Circuit, challenging: 1) whether the
district court erred in denying the defendant’s motion to suppress, and 2) whether the district court
erred by refusing to allow the defendant’s brother to testify regarding the alteration of digital
photographs. The defendant then retained a second counsel to supplement the appeal with an
argument of whether or not trial counsel was ineffective for not demonstrating to the jury that the

Case 1:05-cr-00004-IMK-JES Document 122 Filed 11/16/09 Page 2 of 7 PageID #: 400

defendant did not possess the technological ability to have committed the crimes charged. The two
briefs were consolidated for appeal and the lower court was affirmed. The ineffective assistance of
counsel claim was not considered by the court because the record did not contain evidence sufficient
to satisfy the Strickland v. Washington test. (See unreported decision - Attachment A).
FACTS
Upon complaint to the state authorities that Mr. Testerman had sent a naked picture of
himself to a relative, the state authorities obtained a search warrant for Mr. Testerman’s computer.
Upon review of the computer, several images were observed that appeared to be child pornography
including one depicting a small child then believed to be the above relative’s daughter. (It was later
determined that the girl was not the relative’s daughter, but another small girl). At that point the FBI
was called and thereafter they seized the computer by federal search warrant. The computer was
mirror imaged and many depictions of child pornography were discovered. In addition to the child
pornography, pictures of a naked man were found on the computer; those pictures later identified
as Mr. Testerman by the defendant’s wife and step-sister. The search warrant was challenged and
was upheld by both United States Magistrate John S. Kaull and District Court Judge Irene M.
Keeley. The case proceeded to trial and the defendant was convicted of one count of possession of
child pornography and three counts of receipt of child pornography. He was sentenced to 60 months
incarceration on the count of possession and 108 months on each count of receipt, all to run
concurrent for a total period of incarceration of 108 months. He appealed and the district court was
affirmed. He filed a writ to the Supreme Court which was denied.

2

Case 1:05-cr-00004-IMK-JES Document 122 Filed 11/16/09 Page 3 of 7 PageID #: 401

MEMORANDUM OF LAW
In this Petition, the defendant sites four grounds as a basis for habeas relief and also
generally alleges ineffective assistance of counsel. These claims will be discussed in more detail
below, and the United States will show that the claims (except for his ineffective assistance of
counsel claim) are procedurally defaulted because they should have been raised in his appeal, or
were and were denied. His general claim of ineffective assistance of counsel also fails because he
does not show that his counsel was deficient, nor does he show how the result of the trial or sentence
was unreliable.
Discussion of Grounds
Ground 1 is that the government did not prove jurisdiction by failing to present any evidence
that proved interstate commerce. The government did prove jurisdiction and the record is replete
with evidence that the pornographic images were obtained through the internet. (For example, Trial
Transcript of Government Expert Melinda Cash - Attachment B). Ground 3 is that a virus scan was
not run on the computer which may have shown that the images were placed on the computer by
someone other than the defendant. The defendant ignores all the testimony throughout the trial that
proved that he put the images on the computer, as evidenced by the jury’s verdict. Ground 4 is that
the prosecutor purposefully misled the jury in his closing statement. Assuming arguendo that the
prosecutor misspoke in his closing argument, the jury was instructed that the arguments of counsel
are not evidence. These are all bold assertions by the defendant with no support in any record.
However, even assuming arguendo that the defendant could support these assertions, the claims
would still fail.
Grounds 1, 3 and 4 are procedurally barred because they were not raised on appeal. “Habeas

3

Case 1:05-cr-00004-IMK-JES Document 122 Filed 11/16/09 Page 4 of 7 PageID #: 402

review is an extraordinary remedy and ‘will not be allowed to do service for an appeal.’” Bousley
v. United States, 523 U.S. 614, 621, (1998)(internal citations omitted).
“Where a defendant has procedurally defaulted a claim by failing to raise it on direct review,
the claim may be raised in habeas only if the defendant can first demonstrate either ‘cause’ and
actual ‘prejudice,’ or that he is ‘actually innocent,...’” Id. 622 (internal citations omitted).
[W]e hold that counsel's failure to raise a particular claim on appeal is to be
scrutinized under the cause and prejudice standard when that failure is treated as a
procedural default by the state courts. Attorney error short of ineffective assistance
of counsel does not constitute cause for a procedural default even when that default
occurs on appeal rather than at trial. To the contrary, cause for a procedural default
on appeal ordinarily requires a showing of some external impediment preventing
counsel from constructing or raising the claim. Murray v. Carrier, 477 U.S. 478,
492 (1986)
Because defendant has not shown “some external impediment preventing counsel from
constructing or raising [these] claims,” or that he is “actually innocent,” the above claims are
procedurally defaulted.
Ground number 2 alleges that the government used evidence at trial that was suppressed.
His claim is factually incorrect. The defendant states that the hard drives were suppressed. The
Magistrate Judge recommended that the CPU be suppressed but not “its contents” (the files
contained in its hard drive and diskettes). The Judge at trial adopted the recommendations of the
Magistrate Judge and specifically admitted the computer’s hard drive which is contained in the CPU.
(Copies of both orders - Attachments C & D). The defendant is correct that the CPU was used for
demonstrative purposes, but was not admitted at trial and therefore there is no error alleged. In
addition, the motion to suppress was raised on appeal and was denied, therefore if this claim is
considered review of the motion to suppress it is procedurally barred. United States v. Nyhuis, 211
F.3d 1340, 1343 (11th Cir. 2000) (“The district court is not required to reconsider claims of error that
4

Case 1:05-cr-00004-IMK-JES Document 122 Filed 11/16/09 Page 5 of 7 PageID #: 403

were raised and disposed of on direct appeal”).
While not numbered as a specific ground for this habeas, the defendant alleges in his petition
at paragraph 9(f) that he received ineffective assistance of counsel. He further alleges staleness,
violation of Fair Trial Rights, Overbreadth, and Vagueness. None of these are further explained
and the government will not respond. The Strickland standard for winning a habeas petition based
on ineffective assistance of counsel is clear:
First, the defendant must show that counsel's performance was deficient. This
requires showing that counsel made errors so serious that counsel was not
functioning as the “counsel” guaranteed the defendant by the Sixth Amendment.
Second, the defendant must show that the deficient performance prejudiced the
defense. This requires showing that counsel's errors were so serious as to deprive the
defendant of a fair trial, a trial whose result is reliable. Unless a defendant makes
both showings, it cannot be said that the conviction or death sentence resulted from
a breakdown in the adversary process that renders the result unreliable. Strickland
v. Washington 466 U.S. 668, 687 (1984)
Defendant has not met either prong of this standard.
Nor is defendant entitled to a hearing just because he has made conclusory allegations of
ineffective assistance of counsel. See, e.g., Holmes v. United States, 876 F.2d 1545, 1553 (11th
Cir.1989), which stated:
...[T]his rule does not require that the district court hold an evidentiary hearing every
time a section 2255 petitioner simply asserts a claim of ineffective assistance of
counsel: ‘A hearing is not required on patently frivolous claims or those which are
based upon unsupported generalizations. Nor is a hearing required where the
petitioner's allegations are affirmatively contradicted by the record.’" (quoting from
Guerra v. United States, 588 F.2d 519 (5th Cir.1979)).
In accord, David v. United States, 134 F.3d 470, 478 (1st Cir. 1998)(“To progress to an
evidentiary hearing, a habeas petitioner must do more than proffer gauzy generalities or drop
self-serving hints that a constitutional violation lurks in the wings”).
The Fourth Circuit test for when a habeas petitioner is entitled to an evidentiary hearing is
5

Case 1:05-cr-00004-IMK-JES Document 122 Filed 11/16/09 Page 6 of 7 PageID #: 404

set out in McCarver v. Lee, 221 F.3d 583, 598 (4th Cir. 2000)(“The district court is permitted to hold
an evidentiary hearing only when the petitioner ‘alleges additional facts that, if true, would entitle
him to relief’”). Because the Petitioner has not alleged any facts which would entitle him to relief,
he is not entitled to an evidentiary hearing.
CONCLUSION
WHEREFORE, the United States moves the court to deny the Petition without a hearing.
Respectfully submitted,
SHARON L. POTTER,
United States Attorney
By:

/s/ Sherry L. Muncy
Sherry L. Muncy
Assistant United States Attorney
W.Va. Bar #4789
United States Attorneys Office
320 West Pike Street, Suite 300
Clarksburg, WV 26301
Ph. (304) 623-7030; Fax: (304) 623-7031
zelda.wesley@usdoj.gov

6

Case 1:05-cr-00004-IMK-JES Document 122 Filed 11/16/09 Page 7 of 7 PageID #: 405

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I, Sherry L. Muncy, Assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District of West
Virginia, hereby certify that on August 25, 2009, I electronically filed the foregoing UNITED
STATES’ RESPONSE TO 2255 PETITION, with the Clerk of the Court using the CM/ECF

system, which will send notification of such filing to the following:
Dean M. Boland
George J. Cosenza

and I hereby certify that I have mailed, by United States Postal Service, the document to the
following non-CM/ECF participants:
None.

/s/ Sherry L. Muncy
Sherry L. Muncy
Assistant United States Attorney

7

