 

Oo Co ~I DR HA BP W NY =

Mm NM NH NM NN NN ROE Ee Ee or Oe rl Um U6 Um
oe a fA A & BW NM SF CG Owe NM DH SF YH KY SK

 

 

FILED
September 23, 2011

CLERK, U.S. BANKRUPTCY COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

0003789715

 

 

G. MICHAEL WILLIAMS (#114597)
GANZER & WILLIAMS

1617 ST. MARK'S PLAZA, STE. A
STOCKTON, CA 95207

Telephone: 209-476-1661
Facsimile: 209-476-1674

Attorneys for Debtor
Atman Hospitality Group, Inc.

UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

In Re: Case No. 11-42576
ATMAN HOSPITALITY GROUP, Inc., DC: GMW-2
Debtor. Date: TBD
Time: TBD
Dept: B

 

ON AN INTERIM AND FINAL BASIS

TO THE HONORABLE JUDGE THOMAS C. HOLMAN:

Debtor's Chapter 11 case.

Af

 

 

DEBTOR'S MOTION FOR APPROVAL OF USE OF CASH COLLATERAL

Atman Hospitality Group, Inc., as Debtor and Debtor-in-possession (the "Debtor"), in the
above captioned case, hereby moves this court for entry of order, substantially in the form filed
concurrently with this motion (the "Proposed Interim Order") pursuant to the provisions of
Section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code and Rule 4001(b) of the Bankruptcy Rules, for the approval
of the Debtor's use of cash collateral, on both an interim and final basis, to pay expenses

necessary to maintain the Debtor's ongoing post petition hotel operations and administer the

 
 

 

oc ,F S DH UH DBD WY NS

mM we NY NM YY NY KH NY NOE SEF SE Sr SE PS OS le lle OU
pa a > SOE OC SE SO SE co > =~

 

JURISDICTION

This court has jurisdiction over this matter pursuant to 28 U.S.C. Sections 157 and 1334,
This matter is a core proceeding within the meaning of 28 U.S.C. Section 157(b)(2). Venue is
proper pursuant to 28 U.S.C. Sections 1408 and 1409. The statutory bases for the relief
requested herein are Section 105(a), 361, 363, 541, 1107(a), and 1108 of the Bankruptcy Code.

BACKGROUND

The Debtor is a California corporation. The Debtor's property consists primarily ofa
120 room hotel facility known as the Shasta Gaia Hotel (the "Business") located at 4125
Riverside Place in Anderson, California (the "Hotel Property"). The Debtor also owns a parcel
of bare land located in Merced, Merced County, California (the "Merced Property"). The
Merced Property does not generate any rental income.

The Debtor commenced this Chapter 11 case after a thorough review of all of its
refinancing and restructuring alternatives and only after it became clear that an out-of-court
alternative would not be completed in sufficient time to avoid a pending foreclosure scheduled
for September 20, 2011. On September 19, 2011 (the "Petition Date"), the Debtor commenced
its reorganization case by filing a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the
United States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code").

The Debtor continued after the Petition Date in the possession of the Hotel Property and
management of the Business as Debtor-in-Possession pursuant to 11 U.S.C. Sections 1107 and
1108.

The Debtor cannot successfully operate the Business without the use of cash for the
continued payment of operating expenses, taxes, and other expenses incurred in the ordinary

course of the operation of the Business.

 
o (c) sO A BR WY NYO

[I CO RE CO EO I 0S SE SO SE OO on
oe ~~ NO tw Be UU Ulm LULULMDlUN OO UO UU UFO ON OO

 

 

 

The Debtor has not completed its schedules and statements of financial affairs but has
taken substantial steps to complete them.

The Debtor has approximately 60 employees.

With respect to the Debtor's cash collateral (the "Cash Collateral"), and the subject of
this motion, Far East National Bank (the "Bank"), may claim an interest in such Cash Collateral.

The Debtor has a commercial deed of trust with the Bank for the original principal sum
of $11,450,000.00 (the "Deed of Trust") and this Deed of Trust encumbers both the Hotel
property and the Merced Property. The current balance is approximately $11,315,000.00.
Pursuant to the Deed of Trust, the Bank has an assignment of rents, which the Debtor submits
may include the day-to-day income from the operation of the Business.

The Debtor does not have sufficient unencumbered cash or property from which to obtain
cash to use in the continued operation of Business in this proceeding. The Debtor has no
alternative source from which to borrow or otherwise obtain cash with which to continue the
operation of the Business in this proceeding. The Debtor is entitled to, and must have,
immediate authority to use the Cash Collateral in order to continue the operation of the Business
without interruption during the Debtor's efforts to develop a plan of reorganization for the
benefit of all of its creditors. The Cash Collateral will be used by the Debtor for the purposes of
paying:

A, Its actual operating expenses, which are the same or similar to those experienced
by it in the past operation of the Business and which are necessary to the continued operation of
the Business;

B, Maintenance and preservation of the property of the estate;

C, Current taxes incurred in the operation of the Business; and

 
Oo Oo YD KBD A BB BY HH

wy NN HN NR NR NR Ne OE
So ~~ HK OA BO! UNO OU OlULUlUOCOULUNUN OO UOMO

 

D, Payment of expenses associated with this Chapter 11 case, including United
States Trustee's fees and professional fees and expenses.

If the Debtor is not authorized to use the Cash Collateral, it will be forced to immediately
cease operation of the Business and will not be able to pay expenses that it has currently
incurred.

Ceasing operation of the Debtor will result in immediate and irreparable harm to the
estate and its creditors. Use by the Debtor of the Cash Collateral in accordance with the terms
and conditions set out in this motion are in the best interest of the creditors of the estate.

The Debtor proposes to provide adequate protection to the Bank in exchange for use of
the Cash Collateral by operating through an approved budget and maintaining the Collateral by
means such as continued management of the Business and payment of monthly insurance and
taxes escrow and interest payments.

LEGAL DISCUSSION

The Debtor respectfully submits that the use of Cash Collateral as proposed herein is
proper and supported by applicable law, as follows:

A. To The Extent That Claims Are Secured, Each Are Adequately Protected.

Section 363 provides that a debtor may use cash collateral if (i) the entity with the
interest in the cash collateral consents or (ii) the court authorizes such use. Furthermore, Section
363(e) of the Bankruptcy provides that:

On request of an entity that has an interest in property used... or proposed to be used...
by the debtor-in-possession, the court... shall prohibit or condition such use... as is necessary to
provide adequate protection of such interest, The concept of adequate protection is not defined

in the Bankruptcy Code except by the implication of the examples of adequate protection listed

 
wo fo s DA ww SP W NH

mM MBM NHN BH YM BO RD DR
oso ~D KH wm SB W HB -$|&0x00A7 CO Oo fF HN DBD vA BP W NO -

 

in Section 361. In Re: Beeker Industries, Corp,.58 B.R. 725, 736 (Bankr, $.D.N.Y. 1986).

Under Section 361, adequate protection may be provided by cash payments or additional
or replacement liens. Jn Re: Mullen, 172 B.R. 473, 476 (Bankr. Mass. 1989). Here,
replacement liens will provide the required adequate protection: as long as the Debtor's cash
flow is positive it is generating more cash than it is expending, and the secured claim in
replacement liens will more than cover the amounts expended.

In addition, the very act of preserving the value of Business operations will continue to
generate replacement revenues, as well as preserve the integrity of the estate, thus in and of itself
will provide production.

B. Authorizing Use Of Cash Collateral Is Necessary And In The Estate's Best
Interest.

It is well established that a Bankruptcy Court, where possible, should be flexible in
applying adequate protection standards to enable debtors to maximize value, in order to
encourage the debtor's efforts in the formative period prior to the proposal of a reorganization,
the court must be flexible in applying the adequate protection standard. In Re: O'Connor, 808
F.2d 1393, 1397-98 (10" Cir.1987). For example, in Jn Re Stein, 19 B.R. 458, 460
(Bankr.E.D.PA 1982), the court allowed a debtor to use cash collateral, although the
secured party was under secured because the court found that the use of cash collateral was
necessary to the debtor's continued operation and the creditor's secured position can only be
enhanced by continued operation of the debtor's business.

The focus of the adequate protection requirement is to preserve the secured creditor's
position at the time of the bankruptcy filing and protect the secured creditor from diminution in
the value of its collateral during the reorganization process. In Re: Mosell, 195 B.R. 277, 288

(Bankr. $.D.N.Y 1996).

 
io fo ON HN OH ee OY NY Oe

Me ww BM KY NY NN KY KY YF | KP er SK oS lS lS Ul Oe
co a FO OA BO UOOULNSUlUmrE S| hl lUcOCOlUNCOCUlUOHLULUN UNO RB DN OO

 

As noted above, the Debtor requires immediate access to Cash Collateral to continue
normal business operations. Facilitating the continued operations of the Debtor will allow the
Debtor to maximize assets for the ultimate benefit of the Debtor's secured and unsecured
creditors, For these reasons, the Debtor submits that authorizing the use of the Cash Collateral is
necessary and in the best interest in the Debtor's estate and its creditors.

Without the use of the Cash Collateral, the Debtor would have no ability to operate its
business because it would be unable to pay its employees, vendors and others. As a result,
without the use of Cash Collateral, the Debtor would be unable to maintain the business to the
detriment of all other creditors.

Courts have routinely held that adequate protection may be demonstrated by showing that
the going concern value of the Debtors or the value of the lender's collateral, is preserved by the
Debtors continuing operation and use of the collateral. In Re: JKJ Chevrolet, Inc. 117 F. 3d
1413 (4 Cir. 1997); In Re: Snowshoe Company, Inc,. 789 F. 2d. 1085, 1087 (4 Cir, 1986); In

Re: 499 West Warren Street Associates, L P.; In Re: Constable Plaza
Associates, LP, 125 B.R. 98, 105 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y. 1991).

Similarly here, the Debtor intends to use the Cash Collateral to operate the Business. The
proposed cash expenditures are necessary to preserve and maintain the value of the Business and
the interest of creditors. Therefore, use of Cash Collateral in the manner proposed is absolutely
necessary to preserve the overall value of the Debtor's ongoing enterprise and enhance the
chances of a successful outcome of this case. If the Debtor is precluded from making
expenditures necessary to maintain its assets, all creditors- secured and unsecured- will be
harmed. This, in and of itself, justifies the relief sought herein. See, eg., Jn Re: Aqua

Associates, 123 B.R. 192, 196 (Bankr. E.D. PA 1991). "The important question, in determination

 
oOo "fo NN DH UT SF YH YY

Dm oN we NN NY N NY YY SF SF Tr Fe GF FDP = s
PN Rk BF 8S |= Swe wear Dn MF YY NTS

 

 

 

of whether the protection to creditor's secured interest is adequate, is whether that interest,
whatever it is, is being unjustifiably jeopardized."

Accordingly, use of Cash Collateral is proposed herein as both necessary and in the best
interest of all creditors, including the potential lien holders.

INTERIM APPROVAL IS APPROPRIATE

Bankruptcy Rule 4001(b)(2) provides that a final hearing on a motion to use cash
collateral may not be commenced not earlier than 15 days after the service of such motion.
Upon request, however, the court is entitled to conduct a preliminary hearing on such motion on
an expedited basis, and to authorize the use of that amount of cash collateral as is necessary to
avoid immediate and irreparable harm to the debtor's estate. As stated herein, the Debtor also
respectfully requests the relief sought in the motion be granted initially on an interim basis,
through November 2011, so that there will be no undue interruption of the business operations
or lack of funding. Under the circumstances of this case, particularly given the adequate
protection measures proposed herein, the Debtor respectfully submits that such interim relief is
fully justified.

CONCLUSION

WHEREFORE, based on all the foregoing, the Debtor respectfully requests that this
court enter an order, substantially in the form of the Interim Order, granting the relief herein
requested and such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper.
Dated: September 23, 2011.

G. MICHAEL WILLIAMS

GANZER & WILLIAMS

By:/s/ G. MICHAEL WILLIAMS
Attorneys for Debtor
Lmd:atman.use.mo.

 
