Case 4:09-cr-00342

Document 94

Filed in TXSD on 08/11/2009

Page 1 of 8

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS
HOUSTON DIVISION
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA §
§
v.
§
§
ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD
§
a/k/a Sir Allen Stanford
§
a/k/a Allen Stanford
§

Crim. No. H-09-342

RESPONSE BY THE UNITED STATES TO STANFORD’S EXPEDITED
MOTION TO PERMIT NEW ATTORNEYS TO APPEAR
FOR LIMITED PURPOSE
The United States opposes Stanford’s Expedited Motion To Permit New
Attorneys To Appear For Limited Purpose (Expedited Motion) because allowing such
a conditional appearance would create a significant risk of indefinite delay in this
case and the Patton Boggs attorneys are already able to litigate issues concerning
Stanford’s access to funds as Stanford’s counsel in the civil SEC case.
I.

BACKGROUND
On July 31, 2009, Dick DeGuerin filed a motion to withdraw as Stanford’s

counsel. See Docket Entry # 84. That motion states that Stanford was “asking that
Patton Boggs substitute as counsel in place of Dick DeGuerin” and that “Dick
DeGuerin and his associated lawyers are unwilling to go forward without the
assurance of being paid for work in the future.” Id. On August 4, 2009, the Court
issued its ruling on DeGuerin’s motion, ordering that the motion would be “held in

Case 4:09-cr-00342

Document 94

Filed in TXSD on 08/11/2009

Page 2 of 8

abeyance until such time as a simultaneous unconditional motion for substitution of
counsel is filed by new counsel.” Docket Entry # 86.
Later during the day on August 4, Michael Sydow and attorneys from Patton
Boggs filed the Expedited Motion. See Docket Entry # 89. The Expedited Motion
asks the Court to permit those attorneys “to make a limited appearance in this case to
resolve the issue of whether Mr. Stanford will be able to pay attorneys in this criminal
action” and states that “Mr. Stanford and the Firms have agreed that the Firms will
withdraw and not continue to represent Mr. Stanford in this case if they are unable to
obtain an order from this Court” allowing such a limited appearance. Id. at 2, 4 n.3.
The Expedited Motion also seeks permission to file a reply brief in support of
Stanford’s motion asking this Court to direct the United States to take steps to obtain
funds for Stanford’s defense, a motion on which DeGuerin had already filed a reply
(see Docket Entry # 85).1
Civil attorneys from Patton Boggs already represent Stanford in the civil SEC
case pending against him in Dallas. See SEC v. Stanford International Bank, Ltd., et
al., No. 3:09-cv-298 (N.D. Tex.) (“Civil Case”). Currently pending in that case is a
motion by codefendant Holt, in which Stanford has joined, asking the Dallas district

1

As stated in the Expedited Motion, in the event the Court allows Sydow and Patton
Boggs to make a limited appearance, then the United States would not oppose the filing of this
reply.
2

Case 4:09-cr-00342

Document 94

Filed in TXSD on 08/11/2009

Page 3 of 8

court to rule that its asset freeze order does not apply to a Directors and Officers
Insurance Policy (“D&O Policy”) or, in the alternative, to approve disbursement of
the policy proceeds to the defendants for their legal fees. See Civil Case, Docket
Entries # 538, 567. The Receiver has taken the position that the D&O Policy is an
asset of the estate as it covers not just individuals such as Stanford but also numerous
Stanford Financial Group entities, but recognizes the competing interests of the
individuals in the proceeds and has thus asked the Dallas district court “to make an
appropriate allocation of D&O proceeds.” Civil Case, Docket Entry # 599. The
Dallas district court has not yet ruled on this issue.
II.

A CONDITIONAL APPEARANCE WOULD RESULT IN CONFUSION
AND CREATE A SIGNIFICANT RISK OF INDEFINITE DELAY
Stanford has the right to the attorney of his choice who is willing to represent

him. At this time, however, Sydow and Patton Boggs are not willing to represent him
absent certain conditions being met in the future. Allowing such a conditional
appearance poses a number of problems and provides no discernable benefit given the
ability of the Patton Boggs attorneys to seek attorneys fees from the district court
presiding over the civil case.
First, given this Court’s ruling that DeGuerin may not withdraw until other
counsel makes an unconditional appearance, allowing a conditional appearance by

3

Case 4:09-cr-00342

Document 94

Filed in TXSD on 08/11/2009

Page 4 of 8

Patton Boggs would result in Stanford being represented by two separate counsel.
The first manifestation of the confusion that would result from this situation is the
fact that both DeGuerin and Patton Boggs attempted to file separate reply briefs on
Stanford’s motion seeking this Court to direct the United States to obtain funds for
the payment of Stanford’s attorney fees. In a situation in which two separate groups
of attorneys are representing a single individual, the Court and other parties are not
able to determine which filing actually represents Stanford’s position. Given the
present uncertainty, the United States is in the unusual position of currently serving
both Dick DeGuerin and Patton Boggs with filings in this case.
In addition, allowing a conditional appearance is likely to raise questions as
this case progresses concerning the scope of that limited appearance. Sydow and
Patton Boggs state that the appearance would be limited to “allowing Stanford’s
lawyers to be paid for their services on Mr. Stanford’s behalf in this case” and
“providing that any funds . . . designated to pay the legal fees and costs for
representing Mr. Stanford in this case will not be frozen or otherwise forfeited.”
Motion 3. But these attorneys have some involvement in the substance of the
criminal case given that Patton Boggs recently took over representation of Stanford
in the Fifth Circuit on his bond appeal. It is thus not clear, for example, whether the

4

Case 4:09-cr-00342

Document 94

Filed in TXSD on 08/11/2009

Page 5 of 8

“limited purpose” would entitle Patton Boggs to participate in the discovery process
or to represent Stanford at the status conference scheduled for September 10.
Most concerning, allowing a conditional appearance carries a significant risk
of indefinite delay in this case.

If Sydow and Patton Boggs are allowed to

conditionally appear and undertake a substantial amount of the discovery and
litigation work but then ultimately elect to withdraw,2 new counsel for Stanford
would have to take the time to redo that work. The constitutional and statutory
interest in a speedy trial thus counsels against a conditional appearance. Notably, all
of the cases cited in the Expedited Motion in which courts allowed limited
appearances are civil cases which do not involve speedy trial concerns.
Finally, Patton Boggs is already in a position to assist Stanford’s attempt to
obtain funds for his legal defense without making a conditional appearance in this
case. Patton Boggs represents Stanford in the civil case. Indeed, the Expedited
Motion acknowledges that the insurance policy “issue is currently being litigated in
the SEC civil proceeding by Patton Boggs and Sydow & McDonald . . . . ” Motion
2. As discussed in the United States’s response to Stanford’s request to have this
Court order the United States to obtain funds for Stanford’s defense, the Dallas

2

The Expedited Motion does not set a benchmark for when Sydow and Patton Boggs will
have obtained enough funds to make a permanent appearance, apparently leaving that decision to
the sole discretion of those attorneys.
5

Case 4:09-cr-00342

Document 94

Filed in TXSD on 08/11/2009

Page 6 of 8

district court presiding over the assets of the Receivership Estate is the appropriate
forum for any attempts by Stanford to obtain estate funds for his defense. See Docket
Entry # 83. Moreover, Stanford already has filed and fully briefed a motion asking
this Court to get involved with the D&O Policy issue. The Expedited Motion does
not explain what additional litigation is needed in this Court on that issue.
The United States hopes that the Dallas district court will soon resolve the
litigation concerning the D&O Policy and that the resolution will lead to a final
determination of Stanford’s counsel situation. But to allow a conditional appearance
by Sydow and Patton Boggs in this Court would not expedite resolution of the D&O
Policy issue and instead would create a strong likelihood of confusion and delay.

6

Case 4:09-cr-00342

Document 94

Filed in TXSD on 08/11/2009

Page 7 of 8

CONCLUSION
For the reasons discussed above, the Court should deny the request of Michael
Sydow and Patton Boggs to make a conditional limited appearance in this case.
Respectfully submitted,
TIM JOHNSON
United States Attorney
BY:

_S:\_Gregg Costa_________________
GREGG COSTA
Assistant United States Attorney
STEVEN A. TYRRELL
Chief
Fraud Section, Criminal Division

BY: _____S:\Paul Pelletier____________
PAUL E. PELLETIER
Principal Deputy Chief
JACK B. PATRICK
Senior Litigation Counsel
MATTHEW KLECKA
Trial Attorney

7

Case 4:09-cr-00342

Document 94

Filed in TXSD on 08/11/2009

Page 8 of 8

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I certify that the Response to Stanford’s Expedited Motion was served via ECF
and electronic mail on counsel for defendant Stanford, Dick DeGuerin, as well as on
Patton Boggs, on August 11, 2009.

S:\___Gregg Costa____________
Gregg Costa

8

