Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 1 of 12

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
CITIZENS FOR RESPONSIBILITY AND )
ETHICS IN WASHINGTON,
)
)
Plaintiff,
)
)
v.
)
)
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE,
)
)
Defendant.
)
____________________________________)

C.A. No. 10-750 (JEB)

PLAINTIFF’S OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
In a motion that either distorts or ignores key facts, the Department of Justice (DOJ) has
asked the Court to reconsider its determination that plaintiff Citizens for Responsibility and
Ethics in Washington (CREW) is eligible for and entitled to attorney’s fees under the Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA). According to DOJ, because the Court’s finding of a public benefit
rested on a “negative” inference DOJ characterizes as both unsupported and factually incorrect,
CREW is not entitled to fees.
DOJ is wrong on both the facts and the law, but even more significantly, DOJ overlooks
a critical point. If, as DOJ claims, CREW’s FOIA request confirmed the existence of “numerous
substantive emails,”1 that alone would establish a public benefit entitling CREW to recover its
fees and costs. The fact is CREW’s FOIA requests yielded valuable new information that
enhanced the public’s knowledge of the missing John Yoo emails, a subject not only of
considerable public interest, but also of interest to Congress and the National Archives and
Records Administration (NARA). This is all the FOIA’s fee provisions require.

1

Defendant’s Motion for Reconsideration (D’s Recon. M.), p. 2.

Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 2 of 12

FACTUAL BACKGROUND
Although DOJ devotes three pages to a statement of facts, it omits critical facts that bear
directly on the issue before the Court. First and foremost, CREW requested all Yoo emails in the
possession of the Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) specifically to ascertain “the extent to which
the emails of John Yoo have been destroyed, as referenced in the July 29, 2009 OPR Report,” a
destruction that “may have been the result of willful actions by Mr. Yoo or others, in violation of
DOJ policy and federal laws.” FOIA Request of March 3, 2010, p. 2.2 CREW was not, as DOJ
continues to insist, seeking to learn about the substantive work Mr. Yoo did while at DOJ, but
rather to confirm whether or not Mr. Yoo’s emails in fact were missing, as an internal DOJ
report had asserted.
Second, while CREW sought expedition of only its February 26, 2010 FOIA request, it
supported that request by reference to the “particular urgency to inform the public about the
circumstances underlying the destruction of the emails for former high-ranking OLC officials . .
.” FOIA Request of February 26, 2010.3 Those circumstances underlie both of CREW’s FOIA
requests, as both sought information that would shed light on the destruction of Mr. Yoo’s
emails. CREW relied also on “the widespread and exceptional media interest in this matter and
the questions that have been raised about the circumstances under which the emails . . . were
destroyed . . .”4

2

Exhibit I to Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Plaintiff’s Motion for
an Award of Attorneys’ Fees and Costs (P’s Fee Mem.) (Dkt. 7-2).
3

Exhibit E to P’s Fee Mem.

4

Letter from Anne L. Weismann to Matthew Miller, February 26, 2010 (emphasis added)
(attached as Exhibit A).
2

Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 3 of 12

By granting CREW’s request for expedition DOJ acknowledged explicitly CREW had
demonstrated “‘[a] matter of widespread and exceptional media interest in which there exist
possible questions about the government’s integrity which affect public confidence.’”5 This
“matter” was not confined solely to the documents CREW sought in that first request – record
keeping guidance issued to OLC staff – but extended to the general subject matter of both
requests: the destruction of the Yoo emails. Thus, while DOJ faults the Court for relying on this
grant of expedition because CREW sought expedition of only its first FOIA request (for record
keeping guidance), the agency’s criticism misses the salient point. Expedition was warranted not
just because of exceptional interest in the specific documents CREW requested in its February
26, 2010 request, but because of the widespread and exceptional public interest generally in why
and how the Yoo emails had disappeared. That interest clearly extended to the subject of
CREW’s March 3, 2010 request for all existing John Yoo emails.
Third, the press release DOJ continues to trot out as so-called evidence that nothing in
the FOIA requests at issue yielded anything of public interest, while containing the catchy, if
somewhat hyperbolic, title “‘Found’ John Yoo Emails Shed No Light on What Mr. Yoo Did for
the Department of Justice,”6 also notes “DOJ is withholding 147 documents in full.” The press
release goes on to state: “With nothing to guide us on the subject matter or content of these
additional documents, we still have no idea what real work Mr. Yoo did for the department or
whether he preserved any of his emails dealing with agency business.” Id. While DOJ contends

5

Letter from Paul P. Colborn to Anne L. Weismann, March 16, 2010 (Exhibit E to P’s
Fee Mem.).
6

A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit B.
3

Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 4 of 12

the 147 withheld emails demonstrate Mr. Yoo was involved with substantive work while at DOJ,
it remains the case that we have nothing to guide us on the documents’ specific content.
Moreover, the press release accompanied CREW’s on-line publication of the documents it had
received to date as well as the draft Vaughn index DOJ had provided CREW. Thus, beyond
CREW’s characterization, the public was free to decide for itself the extent to which the barebones description of the 147 withheld documents revealed anything about the substance of the
work Mr. Yoo did for DOJ.7
Further, this press release was, by no means, the only one CREW issued on the subject of
the missing Yoo emails. CREW issued seven other press releases including one on April 28,
2011 (entitled “CREW: Most Yee Emails Won’t be Found”),8 one on July 26, 2010 (entitled
“DOJ Claims No Documents Are Responsive To CREW’s Request for Records of Problems
With Email Storage”),9 one on May 11, 2010 (entitled “CREW Sues Department of Justice over
Missing Yoo Emails”),10 one on April 16, 2010 (entitled “DOJ Releases Documents On Email
Retention Policy in Response to CREW FOIA Request for Missing Memos”),11 one on March 3,

7

In any event, as CREW pointed out in its reply memorandum (Document 10), “the
contents of the so-called “press release” are neither accurate nor probative on the public interest
value of the records themselves as CREW did not seek the records to shed light on Mr. Yoo’s
work at DOJ.” P’s Reply at 12.
8

Available at http://www.citizensforethcis.org/press/entry/crew-most-yoo-emails-wontbe-found.
9

Available at http://www.citizensforethics.org/press/entry/doj-claims-no-documents-areresponsive.
10

Available at http://www.citizensforethics.org/legal-filings/entry/justice-departmentlawsuit-re-missing-yoo-emails.
11

Available at http://www.citizensforethics.org/press/entry/doj-releases-documents-onemail-retention-policy-in-response-to-crew.
4

Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 5 of 12

2010 (entitled “CREW Sends FOIA to DOJ Seeking Copies of Torture Memo Author John
Yoo’s Emails”),12 one on February 26, 2010 (entitled “CREW Files FOIA with DOJ’s Office of
Legal Counsel Regarding Destruction of Torture Memos”),13 and one on February 25, 2010
(entitled “CREW Asks Attorney General to Investigate Destruction fo Emails, any understanding
of CREW’s characterization of the missing).14 Given the volume of press releases CREW has
issued on this matter, CREW’s position on the public interest served by the FOIA requests at
issue cannot reasonably be gleaned from the title of a single press release, taken out of context of
the release itself.
Beyond these press releases and the documents that accompanied them, CREW issued a
report summarizing what it learned about the missing John Yoo emails, The Missing John Yoo
Emails – What Did CREW Learn? (CREW Yoo Report).15 In describing the body of records
DOJ both produced and withheld in response to CREW’s March 2010 FOIA request, which
consisted of a total of 380 emails, CREW’s report stated:
For many, 380 emails would represent a daily or perhaps weekly
haul of emails, given how ubiquitous emailing has become. Yet
DOJ claimed a nearly two-year total of emails for Mr. Yoo – a
high-level OLC official in the thick of many important issues at
DOJ – that averages out to Mr. Yoo sending or receiving approximately one email every other day. Incredible enough as this is,
the vast majority of the email traffic had little, if anything, to do
12

Available at http://www.citizensforethics.org/legal-filings/entry/doj-foia-seekingcopies-of-john-yoo-emails.
13

Available at http://www.citizensforethics.org/legal-filings/entry/crew-files-foia-withdojs-office-of-legal-counsel-regarding-destruction-of.
14

Available at http://www.citizensforethics.org/legal-filings/entry/crew-asks-attorneygeneral-to-investigate-destruction-torture-memo-emails.
15

A copy of this report is attached as Exhibit C.
5

Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 6 of 12

with Mr. Yoo’s assigned responsibilities at DOJ. Instead, it
concerned his frequent stints as an outside lecturer and the various
and sundry articles he published while employed at DOJ. While
on the federal payroll, Mr. Yoo was busy expanding his credentials
and burnishing his resume for the next job on which he had set
his sights – a return to academia. The emails offer little or no
insight into what real work Mr. Yoo did for OLC, suggesting he
preserved virtually no emails dealing with agency business,
and virtually none of the emails he sent.
CREW Yoo Report, p. 2 (footnote omitted). Any understanding of CREW’s actual position on
what the disclosed and withheld Yoo emails said about Mr. Yoo’s work at DOJ must take into
account the body of CREW’s writings on this subject, yet DOJ has instead focused solely on the
title of a single press release.
Finally, the touchstone of the Court’s conclusion that CREW had satisfied the public
benefit prong appears to be CREW’s FOIA request itself, which explains precisely what CREW
was looking for and why. As this Court noted, quoting from that request, “‘[d]isclosure of the
volume and subject of Mr. Yoo’s existing email records . . . would inform the public about
whether and to what extent the destruction of emails was limited to Mr. Yoo’s role in drafting
the terror memoranda and may have been the result of willful actions by Mr. Yoo or others.’”
Memorandum Opinion and Order (Mem. Op.), p. 11 (emphasis added).
ARGUMENT
THE COURT PROPERLY CONCLUDED CREW SATISFIED THE
PUBLIC BENEFIT REQUIREMENT FOR ENTITLEMENT TO FEES.
In determining if the “public benefit” factor weighs in favor of granting a fee award,
courts look to whether ‘the complainant’s victory is likely to add to the fund of information that
citizens may use in making vital political choices.” Cotton v. Heyman, 63 F.3d 1115, 1120 (D.C.
Cir. 1995) (quotation omitted). This Court determined CREW had satisfied this factor, noting
6

Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 7 of 12

the two FOIA requests at issue “concern information related to a controversy of significant
public import.” Mem. Op. at 9. The Court found further the requested documents “were not
available to the public prior to CREW’s requests.” Id. at 10.
DOJ does not take issue with either of these findings. Instead, DOJ faults the Court for
what DOJ calls a “factually erroneous negative inference.” Specifically, DOJ claims the Court
erred when it went beyond the title of CREW’s October 25, 2010 press release to “embrace”
CREW’s argument that “‘[t]he fact that the remaining emails had little to do with Yoo’s
substantive activities at OLC’ ‘suggests that the missing emails concerning the torture
memoranda were destroyed willfully.’” D’s Recon. M. at 6, quoting Mem. Op. at 11. DOJ cites
as an erroneous factual finding of this Court its supposed determination “that ‘only mundane or
unrelated email survived.’” D’s Recon. M. at 6, quoting Mem. Op. at 11. Arguing the
declaration from OLC’s Special Counsel Paul Colborn disproves this finding, DOJ points to the
147 responsive emails it terms “substantive” that DOJ withheld under claims of exemption. D’s
Recon. M. at 6.
At the same time, however, DOJ leads with the claim “[i]t is undisputed that the records
produced in response to Plaintiff’s March 3, 2010 request provided the public with no important
information about the Department activities,” citing to the title of the CREW press release. Id. at
5 (emphasis added). Obviously DOJ cannot have it both ways. DOJ cannot, on the one hand,
claim it is beyond dispute the records failed to provide the public with important information
about DOJ’s activities and insist, on the other hand, the Court committed a reversible error by
concluding the produced documents “shed little if any light on government activities.” Id. at 6.
Beyond this obvious and critical inconsistency, this Court did not – as DOJ contends –

7

Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 8 of 12

find as a matter of fact “[t]hat only mundane or unrelated email survived.” Instead, the Court
quite clearly used that language to summarize what “CREW maintains.” Mem. Op. at 11.
CREW, in fact, argued that “the disclosed documents pertain in significant part to
activities outside of Mr. Yoo’s DOJ responsibilities.” P’s Fee Mem. at 14 (emphasis added).
CREW went on to assert, “[t]hat so few of Mr. Yoo’s existing emails deal with his OLC work
raises the possibility that work-related emails were, in fact, improperly destroyed, a matter of
great public interest and concern.” Id. (emphasis added). Addressing the anticipated argument
from DOJ that the title of a single CREW press release undermines its fee claim, CREW
explained why it made the request in the first place, i.e., “to confirm whether or not emails to and
from him [John Yoo] still existed documenting his performance of [his substantive] work.” Id.
at 15. Thus, CREW’s argument flowed from the purpose of its request and the information it
gleaned from that request, namely the existence of “so few” Yoo emails. Id. at 14.
That DOJ identified “so few” emails from John Yoo in response to CREW’s March 2010
FOIA request cannot seriously be disputed, yet that is precisely what DOJ argues to support its
claim the Court made a key factual error. Pointing to the withheld “approximately 147
responsive and substantive emails,”16 D’s Recon. M. at 6 (emphasis added), DOJ claims they
undermine the Court’s supposed finding that no substantive emails survived. Id. Yet of the 147
withheld emails DOJ has accounted for, only 55 were sent by Mr. Yoo on a total of 32 separate
days spanning a period of three years (five days in 2001, 18 days in 2002, and nine days in

16

DOJ has characterized these withheld emails as “substantive,” but its Vaughn index
contains only the most cursory of descriptions, making it impossible to know whether the emails
are or are not substantive. For example, the index describes certain emails merely as analyzing
unidentified statutes, regulations, or proposed legislation, a description that falls short of
establishing their substantive nature. See, e.g., entries 2.3, 4, 7.
8

Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 9 of 12

2003). DOJ cannot seriously be suggesting this represents a “normal” volume of email for a
high-level official like Mr. Yoo who was involved in so many significant and substantive matters
while at OLC. In short, CREW correctly characterized the existing emails as revealing little, if
anything, about Mr. Yoo’s substantive work at DOJ.
DOJ attempts to excuse the paucity of so-called “substantive” emails with a claim Mr.
Yoo performed work involving classified issues of national security that would not have been
reflected in an unclassified email account. D’s Recon. M. at 7. But DOJ offers no support
whatsoever for this claim. Such rank speculation from lawyers who did not even work with Mr.
Yoo does not provide a basis for this Court to set aside its public benefit finding.17
Even if DOJ were right that CREW’s request led to the identification of emails
documenting Mr. Yoo performed substantive work while at DOJ, this alone would provide a
public benefit justifying a fee award here. Through its FOIA request CREW set out to verify the
findings of DOJ’s internal investigators, the Office of Professional Responsibility, that Mr.
Yoo’s emails had been “deleted and . . . reportedly not recoverable.” Investigation Into the
Office of Legal Counsel’s Memoranda Concerning Issues Relating to the Central Intelligence
Agency’s Use of “Enhanced Interrogation Techniques” on Suspected Terrorists, July 29, 2009,
at 14. This was a matter of great public interest, concern, and significant media attention. As
Senator Patrick Leahy, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, stated during a hearing of
that committee, the missing emails raised “serious concerns about government transparency and
whether the Office of Professional Responsibility had access to all the information relevant to

17

By contrast, DOJ offered a declaration from the individual who supervises the
classified computer systems at DOJ to support its assertion Mr. Yoo had no classified email
account while at OLC.
9

Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 10 of 12

the inquiries.” Eric Lichtblau, Justice Dept. Reveals More Missing E-mail Files, New York
Times, February 26, 2010 (Exhibit B to P’s Fee Mem.). Questions about DOJ’s role and its
failure “to exert itself in any way to retrieve these emails,” also were raised publicly. Scott
Horton, Where are the Yoo and Philbin Emails?, Harpers Magazine, February 26, 2010 (Exhibit
D to P’s Fee Mem.). At the point CREW filed its FOIA requests, there were many unanswered
questions going to the heart of the integrity of government processes in general, and DOJ
processes in particular.
Through its FOIA request, CREW set out to answer some of those questions.
Accordingly, if CREW is correct in its claim that very few substantive emails from Mr. Yoo’s
days at OLC exist, suggesting an improper destruction, the public benefitted from CREW’s
FOIA request (and this lawsuit which resulted in the release of that information) and CREW has
satisfied the public benefit prong. If DOJ is correct that the existence of 147 supposedly
substantive emails proves there was no willful destruction – however improbable – the public
still has benefitted from CREW’s request, which adds to the body of publicly available facts
concerning Mr. Yoo’s tenure at OLC. In either event, CREW’s request led to the release of
information, not previously available to the public, that “inform[s] the public about whether and
to what extent the destruction of emails was limited to Mr. Yoo’s role in drafting the terror
memoranda and may have been the result of willful actions by Mr. Yoo or others.” Mem. Op., p.
11. This is enough to satisfy the FOIA’s fee provisions.
DOJ’s remaining arguments reflect a similar misunderstanding of the public benefit
inquiry. DOJ faults the Court for considering the purpose of CREW’s request in deciding
whether the public benefitted, suggesting the only relevant inquiry “is the benefit that derives

10

Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 11 of 12

from the litigation.” D’s Recon. M. at 7-8 (quotation and citation omitted). But in order to
assess that benefit, the Court must start with CREW’s purpose for seeking the records in
question in the first place, as that is the only logical touchstone for measuring CREW’s success
and the public benefit.
DOJ also claims the Court erred in factoring in DOJ’s grant of expedition based on “‘a
matter of widespread and exceptional media interest’,” id. at 7, quoting Mem. Op. at 10, because
that grant pertained to CREW’s February 26 request, which DOJ characterizes as having no
“bearing on the Court’s fee determination.” Id. at 8. As explained supra, however, DOJ granted
expedition because of the general subject matter that concerned both requests, namely the
widespread and exceptional media interest in the missing John Yoo emails. It was this aspect of
the expedition grant on which the Court properly relied. See Mem. Op. at 10.
Further, whether or not the Court can properly consider OLC’s response to the February
26, 2010 request, there is no question the documents DOJ produced in response to CREW’s
March 2010 request were “‘newly released’” and “‘concern[ed] an event of national
importance.’” Mem. Op. at 10, quoting Davy v. CIA, 550 F.3d 1155, 1159-60 (D.C. Cir. 2008).
Finally, that CREW’s FOIA request benefitted the public is evidenced by the significant
attention the public paid to CREW’s Yoo Report and the documents DOJ produced in response
to CREW’s FOIA request. CREW’s on-line Yoo Report has been read a total of 1,216 times to
date, while the documents and draft Vaughn index DOJ released in response to CREW’s March
2010 FOIA request have been read a total of 1,974 times to date.18 These figures tell an
unmistakable story – there was widespread interest in the missing John Yoo emails that CREW’s

18

See Declaration of Lauren Farber, ¶ 3 (attached as Exhibit D).
11

Case 1:10-cv-00750-JEB Document 13 Filed 11/14/11 Page 12 of 12

FOIA requests satisfied, at least in part.
CONCLUSION
At bottom, DOJ’s motion to reconsider is a regurgitation of an argument it has made
repeatedly and this Court properly has discounted: CREW should not receive fees because it
issued a press release with a title suggesting the documents it received in response to its FOIA
requests shed no light on what Mr. Yoo did while at DOJ. What DOJ wilfully ignores, however,
is that CREW was not pursuing evidence to substantiate or refute the findings of DOJ’s own
internal investigators that Mr. Yoo’s emails mysteriously had gone missing. As this Court
recognized in finding a public benefit here, CREW obtained “precisely the kind of information
[it] hoped to glean from its request.” Mem. Op. at 11. That alone satisfies the public benefit
prong of the fee analysis. Accordingly, CREW respectfully requests that the Court deny DOJ’s
motion for reconsideration.
Respectfully submitted,

Dated: November 14, 2011

/s/ Anne L. Weismann
ANNE L. WEISMANN
D.C. Bar No. 434584
MELANIE SLOAN
D.C. Bar No. 434584
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
Washington
1400 Eye Street, N.W., Suite 450
Washington, D.C. 20005
Phone: (202) 408-5565
Facsimile: (202) 588-5020
Attorneys for Plaintiff

12

