IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI
NORTHERN DIVISION

HOMEWOOD COMPANY, L.L.C.;
LODES, INC.; and CARY

S. and

DOROTHY B. BIERDEMAN
PLAINTIFFS

REVOCABLE TRUST

v.

CASE NO. 3: 14-cy-00907-llTW-LRA

CITY OF PEARL, MISSISSIPPI, and
BRAD ROCERS, MAYOR

DEFENDANTS

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF
RESPONSE IN OPPOSITION TO MOTION
TO DISMISS OF BRAD ROGERS

Come now Homewood Company, L.L.C.; Lodes, Inc.; and Cary S. and Dorothy IL

Bierdeman Revocable Trust ("Plaintiffs") and respond to and oppose the Motion to Dismiss
of Brad Rogers, M.ayor of the City of Pearl, Mississippi.
The Mavor Does Not Exercia Legislative Functions.
"The Mayor invokes . . . Legislative Immunity." (Motion to Dismiss, p. 2,14.) But

Mississippi law does not empower the mayor to vote except in case of a
not here involved. Miss. Code (21-3-15. In

fact,

lie,

a circumstance

the Mayor's motion recites that he "did not

cast a vote on any legislation that is the subject of this litigation." (Motion, p.

3,

S 5.)

The

Mayor's role is Chief Executive OfTicer of the City.

110 has no legislative power.

As

authority cited by the Mayor specifically states, even a public official with legislative
responsibility is not entitled to immunity when the challenged conduct is not legislative.

Hughes v. Tarrant County, Texas, 948 F. 2d

918,

920

(5"' Cir.

1991).

The allegations of the Plaintiffs against the City of Pearl and Mayor Brad Rogers
include that each of the Plaintiffs maintained manulictured home parks for periods in excess
of 15 to 50 years and all preceded any zoning regulation by the City of Pearl; that the
Plaintiffs therefore had a constitutional due process right to their nonconforming status; that

the City and Mayor Brad Rogers ignored this status and refused to allow replacement of
manulictured hornes in each of the parks; that the City and its Mayor engaged in a series of

actions designed to continue their practice of intentional and purposettil discrimination
against these plaintiffs and purposeful and intentional denial of their due process right to
maintain their manufactured home parks as a nonconforming use status; and that these

actions included denial of rights to the Plaintiffs based on alleged litilure to comply with
square-footage limitations for manufactured homes; application of density requirements to

manufactured home parks; and requirement retro actively of physical improvements designed

to prevent continued operation of manulitctured home parks by the Plaintiffs because of the
economic burden illegally imposed.

2

The Mayor Does Have "Superintending
Control of the Actions of City Employees
The Mayor has "superintending control of all the oficers and alTairs of the
municipality." Miss. Code

21-3-15(1).

The refusal of employees of the City to allow

replacement of manufactured homes in Plaintiffs' manufactured home parks; their wronglial
attempt to require conditional use permits, pay additional fees, provide additional documents,

issue notices and otherwise comply with administrative requirements that do not apply to
Plaintiffs are specifically under the direction of employees subicct to the Mayor's

"superintending control." The City's practice of violation of a clearly established
constitutional right has been purposely and intentionally undertaken at the direction of the
Mayor and employees under his control, and are acts designed to destroy the economic

viability of Plaintiffs and therefore discriminate against low and moderate income housing.
Marreco v. City ofHialeah, 625 F. 2d 499, 505-06
-

(5"' Cir.

1980)

-

cited by the Mayor

stands for the proposition that even a party who is entitled to assert absolute immunity, may

do so only with respect to the activitics to which that immunity applics.

The absolute

immunity claimed by the Mayor is "legislative." Not only does it not apply to the Mayor
because he is not a legislator, the transgressing activities alleged by Plaintiffs are not
legislative activitics. They are the actions of City officials acting under the "superintending

control" of the Mayor.

3

The Bogan v. Scott-Harris case, 523 U. S. 44 (1998), cited by the Mayor, addresses

only legislative immunity.
The Plaintiffs IInve a Clearly Established

Constitutional Due Process Right to Nonconforming Status
Morgan v. Swanson, 659 F. 3d 359, 400-01

(5"'

Cir,

201 1), does not support the

Mayor's position. Morgan states that "[ q] ualified immunity does not provide officials with
a license to engage in lawless conduct." Relying on the Morgan

case,

the Fifth Circuit

recently held that:
The doctrine of qualitled immunity "insulatels| " state officials from liability

to the extent that the officials' actions do not violate "clearly established
statutory or constitutional rights . . . '[ t] he basic steps of our qualifiedimmunity inquiry are wcil-known: a plaintiff seeking to defeat qualilled
immunity must show: '(1) that the official violated a statutory or constitutional
right and (2) that the right was 'clearly established' at the time of the
challenged conduct. Trent v. Wade, 776 F. 3d 368, 376-77 (50' Cir. 2015).
The due process right of Plaintiffs to their nonconforming use status has been

intentionally violated by the conduct of Mayor Rogers. The right was "clearly established"
at the time of the challenged conduct and continues to this day. It is beyond purview that the
constitutional due process rights of the Plaintiffs in the nonconforming use status of their
manufactured home parks were clearly established. Any "reasonable official would [have

understood] that what he [ was] doing violates that right, " quoted in Reichle v. Howards, 132
S. Ct. 2088, 2093 (U. S. 2012).

4

Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 8: Twomb/ v. I hal
The Mayor's Motion to Dismiss claims that Plaintiffs' Second Amended Complaint
does not comply with

F.R.C.P.

8. Rule 8 requires "a short and plain statement of the claim"

showing that the pleader is entitled to relief. Ashcraft v. lqbal, 556 U. S. 662 (2009) and Bell
Atlantic Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U. S. 544 (2007) do not repeal or even amend Rule 8. The

cascs require fact-based allegations. The Second Amcoded Complaint unquestionably sets
forth litat-based allegations. Paragraphs 7 through I2 are litct-based allegations describing
the manulictured home parks in question, their longovity, their ownership, their size and
number of lots. Paragraphs 13 through 16 are 11set-based allegations which describe that each

manufactured home park in question is a "nonconforming usc" with respect to zoning in the
City of Pearl and that a nonconforming use is a vested property right of the property owner,

which runs with the land and is a well-established substantial right.
Paragraphs 17 through 19 are thet-based allegations of the City's practice to allow
replacement of manufactured homes in manufactured home parks, and Paragraph 20 is a litch

based allegation that the City began to refuse that right to the Plaintiff Homewood.
Paragraphs 21 through 22 are fact-based allegations that the City subsequently began to

refuse replacement of manulictured homes in the manutlictured home parks owned by the
Plaintiffs Lodes and Bicrdeman. Paragraph 23 is a fact-based allegation that Pearl's current
zoning ordinance does not prohibit replacement of mandisctured in existing manufactured

home parks. Paragraphs 24 through 28 are fact-based allegations which describe arbitrary

and capricious actions of the City in enacting ordinances which are a subterhige to
camouflage their refi.Isal to recognize Plaintiffs' nonconforming use status by calling the
ordinance one thing but placing provisions therein which are clearly zoning protected by

nonconforming use status.
Based on the foregoing fact-based allegations, the Plaintiffs then state their due
process and purposeful discrimination claims.
In contrast to the plethora of facts set forth in the PlaintilTs' Complaint in this case.

Twombly alleged a Sherman Act violation prohibiting anti-competitive conduct based
principally on plaintiffs' allegation of "parallel conduct" by defendants. That conclusory
allegation could plausibly support lawfill, unchoreographed free-market behavior, not just

unlawful agreement, not just unlawful agreement. Likewise, in lqbalplaintiffs complain that
the Attorncy General of the United States and the Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation were "principal architects" of a policy to purposely target plaintiffs after 9/ 11.

The complaint did not challenge constitutionality of arrest or initial detention and included
no fact-based allegations of some policy adopted by the Attorney General and FBI Director
to purposellilly discriminate against plaintiffs in order to detain them. Here, the motion
alleges a constitutional violation and describes the "practice and custom of the City in failing

to acknowledge and allow the plaintiffs to continue their nonconforming use" status. The
6

Complaint here does not make conclusory statements, but sets forth courses of action

predicated on thet-based allegations. The Complaint clearly meets the Twombly/Iqbal test
and is in compliance with the requirements of Fed. R. Civ.
The Mississ'

P. 8.

i Tort Claims Act

Mayor Rogers claims that Plaintiffs' cause of action is sulxiect to the Mississippi Tort

Claims Act. It is not. The Mississippi Supreme Court in Greyhound Welfare Foundation

v.

Mississippi State University, 736 So. 2d 1048, 1049-52 (1999), held that a complaint seeking

injunctive relief (and replevin) does not come within the Mississippi Tort Claims Act. To
do

so,

the Court said, would restrict "the rights of citizens to challenge allegedly improper

acts of the State." The Tort Claims Act describes in Miss. Code gl

1-46-9

the actions that

are exempt. Subsection (d) references the failure to exercise or perform a discretionary duty.
"A duty is discretionary when it is not imposed by law and depends upon the judgment or

choice of the government entity or its employee" Mississippi Transportation Commission
v. Montgomery, 80 So. 3d 789, 795 (Miss. 2012).

discretionary-fimction immunity.

When the function is clear, there is no

The functions rather are ministerial and not exempted

under the Mississippi Tort Claims Act. Here, the clear fact is that the subject manufactured

home parks are entitled to nonconforming use status and approval of replacement homes is
a ministerial act, not discretionary, and not subject to the Tort Claims Act. Natchez Adams

7

School Dist,

v.

Bruce, 168 So. 3d I 181, I 184-85 (Miss. Ct. App. 2015).

Corp. v. Kroger

Co.,

See also Kmart

963 F. Supp. 2d 605, 611 (N.D. Miss. 2013):

A duty is ministcrial, and thus not covered by the immunity provisions of the
"if it is positively imposed by law and required to be performed at a

MTCA,

specile time and place, removing an officer's or entity's choice of judgment."
(Citation omitted.
Furthermore, Subsection (h) specifically excludes issuance or failure or refi.Isal to
issue any privilege, permit, license or similar authorization where the action is malicious or

arbitrary and capricious. The purpose fill and intentional discrimination exercised by the City
and Mayor in this case is malicious.

Their actions are arbitrary and capricious.

Mississippi Tort Claims Act does not apply.

Conclusion
The Motion to Dismiss should be summarily denied.

DATED:

November

2,

2015
Respectlillly submitted,
HOMEWOOD COMPANY, L.L.C.
LODES, INC.; and CARY S. and

DOROTHY B. BIERDBMAN
REVOCABLE TRUST
By and through their attorneys

s/ John G. Codew
JOHN G. CORLEW (MSB # 6526)
8

The

OF COUNSEL:

John G. Corlew (MSB # 6526)
Virginia T. Munford (MSB # 3654)
Kathy K. Smith

(Msn itio350)

CORLEW MUNFORD & SMITTI PLLC
4450 Old Canton Road, Suite 111 (39211)
Post Office Box 16807
Jackson, MS

39236-6807

Phone: 601-366-1106
Fax: 601-366-1052
icorlew(Memslawyers.com
vmunford(ii)cmslawyers.com
ksmith(iDemslawyers.com

9

CER'TIFICATE OF SERVICE

The undersigned hereby certifies that I have calised to be served via the Court's ECF
system on the following:

James A. Bobo

ibobo@ jbobolaw.corn
John G. Corlew

icorlewrB2cmslawyers.com, sbowen(Memslawyers.com
Gregory L. Ilemphill

arce@ hemphillia.wfirm, nct, hemphilliawlirn1@ittt.net
Virginia T. Muntiard
vmunford(Demslawyers.com, aorisock(02cmslawyers.com

Katherine K. Smith

10mit]

alslatyypys.&mnaprisock@ cmslawyers.com

Steven H. Smith
SS111itl1(20shsattorticvs.colia, wsteed(2ildisittorneys.com

DATED:

November

2,

2015
s/ John

G.

Corlew

JOHN G. CORLEW

10

