   

.Case 2:06-cr-O0066-JES-SPC Document 127 Filed 11/07/11 Page 1 of 9 PagelD 214

M8

"GUDDRE DISTRICT Ge Fcoae -- MAMUG "0H: $1

a L ORIOA
AIGA

 
Case 2:06-cr-O0066-JES-SPC Document 127 Filed 11/07/11 Page 2 of 9 PagelD 215

or pardons are available under immigration law. The defendant relied on the advice of counsel
and pled guilty. Counsel allowed the Defendant to believe that because he was Cuban he would
not face immigration consequences. The Defendant travelled out of the Country and returned
without incident with immigration. It was not until the Defendant travelled outside of the
country, post-conviction for the second time, that he became informed that the conviction caused
him to be deportable. In April, 201 1, the Defendant's residency card was confiscated at the jail
and he is awaiting a court date with immigration wherein he expects to be deported. He has no
relief available under immigration law. Had the Defendant been advised by his attorney about
the immigration consequences of his plea, he would have fought for the suppression of evidence,
which he believed there was grounds for suppression, and would have exercised his right to a
trial. This conviction is the sole basis of the defendant's deportability. But for this conviction,
the Defendant would not be placed in deportation proceedings and would instead, be able to

obtain citizenship in this Country.

INEFFECTIVE ASSISTANCE OF COUNSEL
TIMELINESS

According to 28 USC, Section 2255 all remedies on motion attacking sentence shall be
filed no later than one year after the date on which the right asserted was initially recognized by
the Supreme Court, if that right has been newly recognized by the Supreme Court and made
retroactively applicable to cases on collateral review. 28 USCS, Section 1651 does not appear to

have a time bar, but rather is treated as a remedy of last resort.

In the instant case, the Defendant's argument is based upon the fundamental

constitutional sixth amendment right to be represented by effective and competent counsel and
, Case 2:06-cr-O0066-JES-SPC Document 127 Filed 11/07/11 Page 3 of 9 PagelD 216

the decision by the Supreme Court of the United States of America on March 31, 2010 in Padilla
v. Kentucky, Supreme Court Opinion attached hereto. It is clear from the Supreme Court
Opinion in Padilla that the intent is that their decision be retroactively applied as it discussed the
concern of opening the "floodgates" at page 14-15 of the majority opinion. At page 15, the
Court states that "It seems unlikely that our decision today will have a significant effect on those
convictions already obtained as a result of plea bargains. For at least the past 15 years,
professional norms have generally imposed an obligation on counsel to provide advice on
deportation consequences of a client's plea. We should, therefore, presume that counsel satisfied
their obligation to render competent advice at the time their clients considered pleading guilty."
The language from the Supreme Court opinion quoted above indicates that if a defendant's
counsel did not comport with "professional norms" and was not advised or was given erroneous
advice by his attorney of deportation consequences, the opinion should be applied to them and
they should be able to seek relief even if more than one year has elapsed since the judgment and

sentence becoming final.

LEGAL ARGUMENT

In Padilla v. Kentucky, Padilla was a resident of the United States for nearly 30 years and
had participated on behalf of the United States in the Vietnam War. In 2004, Padilla was
arrested and charged with trafficking in cannabis and was prosecuted federally for said offense.
When deciding whether to plead guilty, Padilla's attorney advised Padilla that he need not WOITy
about immigration consequences or deportation because he had been here so long that there was
no way that he would be deported as a result of a conviction for trafficking in cannabis. Relying
on counsel's erroneous advice, Padilla pled guilty. A review of the lower court opinion, Padilla

v. Kentucky, 2006 Ky. App. LEXIS 98 makes it clear that the record from the date of the change
Case 2:06-cr-O0066-JES-SPC Document 127 Filed 11/07/11 Page 4 of 9 PagelD 217

of plea indicated that Padilla was aware of the possibility that he could be deported. See page
three of lower court opinion attached hereto. Despite the record being clear as to Padilla's
awareness of possible deportation consequences, the Supreme Court found that Padilla's
allegation that his attorney affirmatively misadvised him was not disputed by the record and
Padilla was therefore entitled to have the case remanded to the trial court for an evidentiary
hearing in regards to the prejudice prong of the analysis. At page 11 of the majority opinion of
the Supreme Court of the United States of America, the Court discusses that when immigration
law is unclear as to exactly what consequences will result from a guilty plea and/or conviction,
"a criminal defense attorney need do nothing more than advise a non-citizen client that pending
criminal charges may carry a risk of adverse immigration consequences." It explains further that
when deportation consequences are clear, as they are in drug cases, the duty of a defense attorney
to give correct advice regarding deportation is equally clear. The Supreme Court went on to
State, "It is our responsibility under the Constitution to ensure that no criminal defendant-
whether a citizen or not-is left to the `mercies of incompetent counsel.' To satisfy this
responsibility, we now hold that counsel must inform her client whether his plea carries a risk of
deportation. Our longstanding Sixth Amendment precedents, the seriousness of deportation as a
consequence of a criminal plea, and the concomitant impact of deportation on families living
lawfully in this country demand no less." In addition, despite the Solicitor General urging the
Supreme Court to limit their decision to affirmative mis-advice of counsel, the Supreme Court
refused to limit their opinion to affirmative mis-advice stating that limiting the opinion to
affirmative mis-advice would "invite two absurd results. First, it would give counsel an
incentive to remain silent on matters of great importance, even when answers are readily

available. Silence under those circumstances would be fundamentally at odds with the critical
Case 2:06-cr-O0066-JES-SPC Document 127 Filed 11/07/11 Page 5 of 9 PagelD 218

obligation of counsel to advise the client of advantages and disadvantages of a plea agreement.
When attorneys know their clients face possible exile from the country and separation from their
families, they should not be encouraged to say nothing at all. Second, it would deny a class of
clients least able to represent themselves the most rudimentary advice on deportation even when
it is readily available." The Supreme Court further holds "it is quintessentially the duty of
counsel to provide her clients with available advice about an issue like deportation and the

failure to do so "clearly satisfies the first prong of the Strickland analysis."

In the instant case, defense counsel provided NO advice to the Defendant in regards to the
absolute deportation consequences of his plea. It is clear under immigration law that a
conviction for any drug offense is a deportable offense for which no waivers are available
(unless it is possession of 30 grams or less of cannabis). It is an aggravated felony under
immigration law which means certain deportation. Under the Padilla decision, it is ciear that
the Defendant's counsel was ineffective and incompetent because he gave no advice to the
Defendant and failed to tell Mr. Castillo of the imminent deportation he was facing due to the
conviction. The Defendant relied on the advice rendered by counsel that was devoid of any
conversation regarding immigration and entered a change of plea. The Defendant was entitled to
a clear waming regarding immigration consequences from HIS ATTORNEY. Had the
Defendant had that warning, he would not have entered into the plea bargain. But for this
Conviction, the defendant would not be deportable. The Defendant is suffering immigration
consequences due to the lack of advice by counsel. His residency card was detained by
immigration at the airport and he is awaiting his inevitable deportation. Therefore, under
Padilla v. Kentucky the Defendant is entitled to relief and should be allowed to vacate the

judgment and sentence.
Case 2:06-cr-O0066-JES-SPC Document 127 Filed 11/07/11 Page 6 of 9 PagelD 219

WHEREFORE, the Defendant respectfully requests that this Honorable Court vacate the
Judgment and Sentence and allow the Defendant to recommence plea negotiations and/or set his
case for trial.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

| HEREBY CERTIFY that a true and correct copy of the foregoing was delivered via
CM/ECF to the Clerk of Courts and mailed to the United States Attorney's Office at 2110 First

Street, Fort Myers, FL 32902 this 1" day of November, 2011..

CORONA LAW FIRM, P.A.
3899 NW 7" Street, 20x2122 Floor
Miami, Florida 33126
Telephone: (305) 266-1150

By:_/s/ Ricardo Corona
RICARDO R. CORONA/ Nina Tarafa
Attorney for Defendant
Florida Bar No: 1 11333/ 121-78
Case 2:06-cr-O0066-JES-SPC Document 127 Filed 11/07/11 Page 7 of 9 PagelD 220

AFFIDAVIT IN SUPPORT OF MOTION TO VACATE JUDGMENT AND

SENTENCE IN CASE NUMBERO6-CR-66-Ftm 99 spc , United States District

Court, Middle District of Florida

STATE OF FLORIDA

COUNTY OF MIAMI-DADE

1. Before me, the undersigned authority, personally appeared Maiken Aguila
who, being by me first duly sworn, says:

2. | am over the age of 18 and have personal knowledge of the facts set
herein.

3. In 2006, | was arrested and federally charged with offenses relating to

cultivation of cannabis.

4, | was represented by a Federal Public Defender.
5. My lawyer knew that I was not a citizen of the United States of America.
6. My lawyer always spoke to me as if a trial was not an option, however |

had a valid defense. The search was illegal because | did not voluntarily consent to the
search leading to the cannabis. | was already in custody and had been transported to
the location by force. The officers broke down a door to a room that I did not have a key
for and found cannabis plants.

7. Because | was unfamiliar with the justice system, | followed my lawyers
advice and did not insist on going to trial or on trying to suppress evidence.

8. Based on my lawyers advice, | pled guiity.

1
Case 2:06-cr-O0066-JES-SPC Document 127 Filed 11/07/11 Page 8 of 9 PagelD 221

9. My lawyer did not tell me that pleading guilty to the charges would lead to
my certain and inevitable deportation.

10. My lawyer led me to believe that because | am Cuban, | would not suffer
immigration consequences.

11. | The case closed and | served my sentence.

12. I travelled to Cuba and returned without a problem with immigration.

13. | then travelled to the Dominican Republic. When | returned from the
Dominican Republic, immigration at the airport took my residency card away from me
and told me that | would be placed in deportation proceedings because of this
conviction.

14. | Based solely upon this conviction, | will be ordered deported and placed
on an Order of Supervision. The Order of Supervision will require me to report to
immigration regularly until the day comes that relations with Cuba change and the

United States can deport me physically.

15. Had | known that | would be deported as a result of this conviction, | would
have gone to trial. To me, it is far better to take the risk of going to trial than to accept
an automatic deportation to Cuba.

16. | am married to a legal permanent resident and | have an American child
who is only one year old.

17. | have worked very hard in this Country and have paid taxes.

18. But for this conviction, | would not be deported and | would be able to

obtain citizenship.
_ Case 2:06-cr-00066-JES-SPC Document 127 Filed 11/07/11 Page 9 of 9 PagelD 222

19. Under penalty of perjury | attest that the above is true. Further affiant

sayeth naught.

 

MAIKEN AGUILA

Sworn and subscribed before me by MAIKEN AGUILA this we day of

Cctopoe. _, 2011.

x he "Gun)

TARY PUBLIC, STAVE OF FLORIDA

Sows A KVo0"/ SVver-
NAME OF NOTARY

 

Notary Public State of Florida
1 at. Sonnia Rodriguez

?
ac My Commission EE115926
% Pe Expires 08/18/2015

 
