. Case.3:13-cv-01238-CAB-BLM . Document 5 ---Filed 09/10/13: --Page 1 of 2

CPROTUNG =|

8/24/13 - 21 Coneflower Lane, Princeton Junction, New Jersey 08550 phone: 609-548-6067

Dear Honorable Judge Bencivengo,

why

Please accept this motion to dismiss in response to the papers filed in case #'13CV1238CAB BLM -| got ,
these papers on August 27, 2013. | am sending you documents from the Ugotposted.website-T want
you to know it is all third party submissions with 0 tolerance towards child pornography. All the
information is given by the users including their names, cities, states, Facebook page link, age (18+) were
required bythe user. Other links including Twitter, Tumbir could also be given. Terms of service which is
attached to this letter states that the site is protected under the First Amendment and 47 U.S.C. 230.

t
(see terms ofuse).

If we knew when Abigail Talley was posted on the site we would be able to check the submission and IP
address of the submission. We would give the information to the cops or authorities so they could
prosecute the.person who did it. | did not alter the.photos that are submitted. A script automatically
puts the watermark on the pictures. The user must agree to'be solely responsible for the content posted
on the website..(. please see pages.23-28)...... ......- ce

At no time did Amy and Roy Chanson have any association:with the website. They did not even know
about the website until Randazza called me because James McGibney wanted to buy the site from me. 0x00B0
My parents had no association with the site only me and Kevin Bollaert. We were the only two who
were doing it. We always removed user content with a subpoena and fully cooperated with the cops
when asked. | did not take pictures of Abigail Talley and did not put Abigail Talley's pictures on the site.
There are no dates on the case to tell when she was on the site.

| am sending you all the site information so you know that in order to use the site, the user must provide
all the contact information and agree they are 18 years of age. | no longer have anything to do with
YougotPosted. Please see when the names were transferred to Kevin and the contract was signed.

| was talking to McGibney about selling the website to him. Nothing was signed in writing and we did
not have a final agreement. He was mad that | wasn't selling the site to him. Then | was threatened by
Randazza and Green to sell the Ugotposted website to James McGibney. They said they would sue and
ruin me and my family if | didn't sell them the site. | was.very upset how they threatened me and my
mom. |.am sorry | put her on the phone to talk to Randazza. Now he's saying her and my dad was a part
of it. That is not true. She was trying to help me talk to him when he threatened her, too. | got so mad
that | decided not to talk to Randazza group again. | changed my phone number because | didn't want to
deal with being threatened. That is when he started all these lawsuits against me and Kevin and my
parents. | sold the website, domain names, and trademark to Kevin in March 2013. | no longer have any
association with Yougotposted and Ugotposted. If you need more information on Abigail Talley, Kevin
would be the one to contact. Sincerely,
 

Case 3:13-cv-01238-CAB-BLM

+

iG -

Document 5 Filed 09/10/13 Page 2 of 2

8 /ol4/ 1

 

Eric Chanson

Date

 

 

Date

 

Eric Chanson

 
