Case 2:15-cr-00193-SDW Document16 Filed 05/27/15 Page 1 of 13 PagelD: 88

CRITCHLEY, KINUM & VAZQUEZ, LLC
ATTORNEYS AT LAW '
75 LIVINGSTON AVENUE
ROSELAND, NEW JERSEY 07068

MICHAEL CRITCHLEY (973) 422-9200
MICHAEL CRITCHLEY, JR. -
CHRISTOPHER W. KINUM Fax: (973) 422-9700
JOHN MICHAEL VAZQUEZ web site: www.critchleylaw.com

 

EDMUND DENOIA
CHRISTOPHER L. FOX

May 27, 2015

Electronically Filed

Honorable Susan D. Wigenton, U.S.D.J.

MLL. King, Jr. Federal Building & Courthouse
50 Walnut Street

Newark, New Jersey 07102

Re: United States v. Baroni, et. al.,
Indictment No.: 15-cr-00193 (SDW)

Dear Judge Wigenton:

This firm represents Bridget Anne Kelly in the above referenced matter. I am writing on
behalf of Ms. Kelly, and joined by defendant William Baroni, to respectfully request that the court
issue a Rule 17(c) subpoena for documents and information material to defendants' defense.
Specifically, defendants seek a Rule 17(c) subpoena for, among other things set forth below, rough
and/or draft handwritten and typed notes of interviews! conducted by the law firm Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher, LLP ("Gibson Dunn") related to the subject matter of the Indictment.

I. Background

Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 17(c) provides for the use of subpoenas in criminal

matters, by either a defendant or the government, to obtain documentary evidence as follows:

A subpoena may order the witness to produce any books, papers,
documents, data, or other objects the subpoena designates. The

 

' Defendants' request also includes transcripts and audio and/or video recordings of any interviews.
Case 2:15-cr-00193-SDW Document16 Filed 05/27/15 Page 2 of 13 PagelD: 89
Hon. Susan D. Wigenton, U.S.D.J.

May 27, 2015
Page 2

court may direct the witness to produce the designated items in court

before trial or before they are to be offered in evidence. When the

items arrive, the court may permit the parties and their attorneys to

inspect all or part of them.
R. 17(c). The issuance of a Rule 17(c) subpoena is left to the sound discretion of the district
court. See United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683, 702 (1974). "The test for enforcement {of a Rule
17 subpoena] is whether the subpoena constitutes a good faith effort to obtain identified evidence
rather than a general `fishing expedition' that attempts to use the rule as a discovery device."
United States v. Cuthbertson, 630 F.2d 139, 144 (citations omitted); see also United States _v.
Vanegas, 112 F.R.D. 235, 238 (D.N.J. 1986).

When a defendant makes an application for a Rule 17(c) subpoena on a third party, the

subpoena must be "(1) reasonable, construed using the general discovery notion of `material to the

defense;' and (2) not unduly oppressive for the producing party to respond." United States v.

Nachamie, 91 F. Supp. 2d 552, 563 (S.D.N.Y. 2000); see also United States v. Tucker, 249 F.R.D.

 

58, 66 (S.D.N.Y. 2008), as amended (Feb. 20, 2008); United States v. Tomison, 969 F. Supp. 587,

 

593 (E.D. Cal. 1997) ("[W]here evidence relevant to guilt or punishment is in a third party's
possession and is too massive for the defendant to adequately review unless obtained prior to trial,
pre-trial production through Rule 17(c) is necessary to preserve the defendant's constitutional right
to obtain and effectively use such evidence at trial." (citing United States v. Murray, 297 F.2d 812,

821 (2d Cir. 1962) (interpreting Bowman Dairy Co. v. United States, 341 U.S. 214 (1951))).

 

By way of background, on or about January 9, 2014, the USAO announced that it had
launched an investigation into to the events which give rise to the present Indictment. See May
27, 2015, Declaration of Michael Critchley, Esq ("Critchley Dec."), Ex. 1. On January 16, 2014,

Gibson Dunn was retained by the Office of the Governor of New Jersey to conduct what was later
Case 2:15-cr-00193-SDW Document16 Filed 05/27/15 Page 3 of 13 PagelD: 90
Hon. Susan D. Wigenton, U.S.D.J.

May 27, 2015

Page 3

described as a "thorough and exhaustive" investigation into events which give rise to the present
Indictment. Specifically, Gibson Dunn was retained to "conduct an internal investigation of the
George Washington Bridge" allegations and "facilitate cooperation with the U.S. Attorney's
Office." Critchley Dec., Ex. 2 at 35. Governor Christie made clear that he "would make [Gibson
Dunn's investigation] public without any restriction." Critchley Dec., Ex. 3. On or before
February 3, 2014, the Office of the Governor received a subpoena from the USAO related to the
subject matter of this Indictment. Critchley Dec., Ex. 2 at 34 n.203.

Gibson Dunn conducted more than 70 interviews over the course of approximately two
months in early 2014 and reviewed over 250,000 documents in order to produce a 300-plus page
investigative report (the "Mastro Report"). Critchley Dec., Ex. 2 at 1, 36. On or about March 27,
2014, Gibson Dunn publically disclosed the Mastro report, hundreds of carefully selected exhibits,
and later disclosed interview summaries of the witnesses interviewed, on a public website

maintained by Gibson Dunn."

Critchley Dec., Ex. 4. Gibson Dunn also produced the Mastro
Report and witness interview summaries to the USAO and the New Jersey Legislative Select
Committee on Investigations.' Recent media reports indicate that, to date, the State of New Jersey
has paid Gibson Dunn over $7,750,000 for this matter. Critchley Dec., Ex. 5.

Following defendants' initial appearance, counsel met and conferred with the USAO to

discuss discovery generally, and to discuss documents produced by Gibson Dunn specifically.

During the meet and confer, the government indicated that it intends to produce approximately 1.5

 

? The Mastro Report and exhibits and the interview summaries were publically available at www.gdcreport.com. This
website has apparently been disabled.

* The Committee is a bi-partisan joint legislative investigative committee comprised of eight Assembly representatives
and four Senators. The Committee possesses the legislative subpoena power, which it has used to compel testimony
before it and the production of documents. The Committee, while having the power to investigate other matters, has
primarily focused its investigation on the events and subject matter that give rise to this Indictment.
Case 2:15-cr-00193-SDW Document 16 Filed 05/27/15 Page 4 of 13 PagelD: 91
Hon. Susan D. Wigenton, U.S_D.J.

May 27, 2015

Page 4

million pages of documents in discovery. Additionally, the USAO indicated that Gibson Dunn
had produced to the government the Mastro Report and interview summaries that Gibson Dunn
had also made publicly available via the website controlled by Gibson Dunn. The USAO further
indicated that they had asked Gibson Dunn for copies of the rough or draft notes from which the
interview summaries were prepared and were told that none existed.

Gibson Dunn's apparent representation to the USAO that it did not have or retain notes of
interviews that were conducted during Gibson Dunn's "investigation," despite the existence of an
ongoing federal Grand Jury investigation and a specific subpoena to the Governor's Office for
information related to the reduction of lanes at the George Washington Bridge, is troublesome to
say the least. Considering the number of former assistant U.S. attorneys described as "Key
Members of Gibson Dunn's Investigation Team," Gibson Dunn was keenly aware of its
affirmative obligation to retain, and not alter or destroy, any and all information in its possession
related to an ongoing Grand Jury investigation and responsive to a Grand Jury Subpoena of its
client.

Separately, Gibson Dunn was under a specific obligation to retain all "work product"
created during its engagement by the Office of the Attorney General on behalf of the Office of the
Governor. Specifically, the "Outside Counsel Guidelines" maintained by the Office of the
Attorney General and Department of Law states: "Outside counsel shall retain . . . work product .
.. for a period of not less than seven (7) years from the date the matter is concluded or for the time
period specified by rule or law in the jurisdiction in which the matter was pending, whichever is
longer." See Critchley Dec., Ex. 6 at 15. Thus, the very terms of Gibson Dunn's engagement
required it to retain its rough and/or draft interview notes, stenographic transcripts and audio and

video recordings of interviews for at least seven years.
Case 2:15-cr-00193-SDW Document16 Filed 05/27/15 Page 5 of 13 PagelD: 92
Hon. Susan D. Wigenton, U.S.D.J.

May 27, 2015
Page 5

Defendants respectfully request that the court issue a Rule 17(c) subpoena to obtain the
actual rough and/or draft notes (whether handwritten or typed)' used to prepare the interview
summaries that have been publically disclosed, as well as the other information detailed below.
Counsel has been advised by several individuals who attended the Gibson Dunn interviews that an
attorney, paralegal and/or stenographer was "feverishly" typing verbatim or near verbatim notes
of everything that was said by the witnesses during the interviews." Critchley Dec., 0x00A7 12. Unless
Gibson Dunn inexplicably destroyed or discarded all the device(s) and notepads used by the
attorneys, paralegal and/or stenographer, Gibson Dunn must possess notes of the interviews in
either handwritten or typed form, notwithstanding its apparent representations to the Government.

The interview rough notes, as opposed to the interview summaries, are highly material to
the defendants because they contain potential trial witnesses' actual, contemporaneous recitations
of the facts related to the present Indictment. The interview summaries, on the other hand, state
that each witness "has not read or reviewed the memorandum and has not adopted or approved its
contents." See Critchley Dec., Ex. 7. Additionally, the summaries state "[t]his memorandum does
not contain a verbatim transcript of what was said at the meeting; rather, it is a summary of the

discussion that reflects counsel's mental thoughts and impressions... ." Id. As such, the reliability

of the interview summaries are wholly dependent on "counsel's mental thoughts and impressions."

Id.

Not surprisingly, considering the questionable manner in which the interview summaries

were prepared, two witnesses have already stated under oath during legislative hearings that the

 

1 Defendants' request includes any stenographic transcripts and audio and/or video recordings.

* It is counsel's understanding that, in addition to a paralegal and/or stenographer, attorneys were also separately taking
notes during the interviews. Further, the interviews must have been memorialized in rough or draft form in order to
prepare the interview summaries that were publically disclosed.
Case 2:15-cr-00193-SDW Document16 Filed 05/27/15 Page 6 of 13 PagelD: 93
Hon. Susan D. Wigenton, U.S_D.J.

May 27, 2015

Page 6

summaries were incorrect in critical respects. Specifically, Christine Genovese Renna, a former
colleague of Ms. Kelly's whom defendants anticipate will be a witness at trial, stated that the
summaries contained "some inaccuracies" and characterized her interview summary as "alarming"
because it contained "aggressive language . . . not language that [she] would have used." Critchley
Dec., Ex. 8, T:40-42, 51. Similarly, Kevin O'Dowd, former Chief of Staff to Governor Christie,
and Ms. Kelly's former direct supervisor whom the defendants also believe will be a witness at
trial, took exception with the characterizations of Ms. Kelly in his interview summary. Critchley
Dec., Ex. 9, T:143, 222-224.

Muddying the waters even further, many witnesses were interviewed by as many as six
attorneys(R) on multiple days over the course of two months.' Critchley Dec., Ex. 7. Despite the
multiple interviews, Gibson Dunn prepared only one summary for each witness that was authored
generally by "Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, LLP," not a specific attorney. Id. Therefore, without the
attorney rough notes or the notes of the individual(s) "feverishly" typing what was said during the
interviews, it is impossible to determine: which attorney's recollection is captured in each
witness's summary; what was discussed with the witnesses during separate interviews; or, how the

witnesses' recollections may have changed from one interview to the next. The handwritten or

typewritten interview notes are the only means of determining what the witnesses actually said.

 

(R) Asa separate matter, Gibson Dunn's use of as many as six attorneys to conduct routine witness interviews is a blatant
violation of the Attorney General's and Division of Law's "Outside Counsel Guidelines," which states: "The Division
expects lean staffing on its matters. The Division generally expects to be billed for only one attorney to attend events
such as depositions, [and] witness meetings... ." See Critchley Dec., Ex. 6 at 7. While the Guidelines recognize that
in more "complex matters . . . it may occasionally be appropriate for multiple attorneys to attend significant events . .
. [the Division] insist[s], however, no more than the minimum number of attorneys necessary to an event attend." Id.
(emphasis added). As such, Gibson Dunn's overstaffing and underperforming in failing to turn over its rough notes
as requested by the USAO is beyond puzzling.

7 By way of illustration, Ex. 7, Table 1, details the witnesses that were interviewed on more than one occasion and/or
interviewed by 3 or more attorneys. See Critchley Dec., Ex. 7, Table I.
Case 2:15-cr-00193-SDW Document16 Filed 05/27/15 Page 7 of 13 PagelD: 94
Hon. Susan D. Wigenton, U.S.D.J.

May 27, 2015
Page 7
1. Discussion

As a preliminary matter, it is well-established that attorney interview notes reflecting
factual statements by witnesses are not opinion work product and are thus discoverable. See Jn re
John Doe Corp., 675 F.2d 482 (2d Cir. 1982). In John Doe Corp., the government sought the
production of attorney notes of interviews of plaintiff's employees in connection with an
investigation. The Second Circuit observed after examining the notes of one of employee:

their production will not trench upon any substantial interest
protected by the work-product immunity. The notes recite in a
paraphrased, abbreviated form, statements by Employee A relating
to events surrounding the payment to Lawyer. To the extent that
the statements imply the attorney's questions from which
inferences might be drawn as to his thinking, those inferences
merely disclose the concerns a layman would have as well as a
lawyer in these particular circumstances, and in no way reveal
anything worthy of the description `legal theory.' We hold,
therefore, that the notes of the Employee A interview must be
produced.

[Id. at 493 (emphasis added).]

As such, the facts contained in the interview notes are not privileged. The Mastro Report
makes clear that the purpose and scope of Gibson Dunn's retention was, among other things, to
perform "a thorough investigation of the facts relating to [] the George Washington Bridge lane
realignment... ." Critchley Dec., Ex. 2 at 36 (emphasis added). Since Gibson Dunn, by its own
admission, was retained to simply gather facts, the interview rough notes are not privileged.

To the extent that any part of the Gibson Dunn attorney notes could have been considered
privileged, Gibson Dunn waived any potential privilege by selectively disclosing the interview

summaries and Mastro Report to the USAO, the New Jersey Legislative Select Committee on

Investigations and also posting the material on a public website controlled by Gibson Dunn during
Case 2:15-cr-00193-SDW Document16 Filed 05/27/15 Page 8 of 13 PagelD: 95
Hon. Susan D. Wigenton, U.S.D.J.
May 27, 2015
Page &
an ongoing Grand Jury investigation in which its client was subpoenaed to, at least, produce
documents.(R) "{T]he Supreme Court has rejected attempts to use `the work-product doctrine to
sustain a unilateral testimonial use of work-product materials.' [And w]e have previously denied

a claim of privilege after a claimant decided to selectively disclose confidential materials in order

to achieve other beneficial purposes." Jn re Steinhardt Partners, L.P., 9 F.3d 230, 235 (2d Cir.

 

1993) (quoting United States v. Nobles, 422 U.S. 225, 240 (1975)). The Steinhardt court opined
that "selective assertion of privilege should not be merely another brush on an attorney's palette,
utilized and manipulated to gain tactical or strategic advantage," and observed that those waiving
such protections generally do not do so for altruistic reasons: "[vJoluntary disclosure is generally
made because [of the belief] that there is some benefit to be gained from disclosure." Id. at 235.
A party, therefore, waives the protections afforded by the work product doctrine when they
disclose privileged information to a government agency during the course of an investigation. See
Westinghouse v. Republic of the Philippines, 951 F.2d 1414 (3d Cir. 1991) (declining to adopt
selective waiver for work product privilege and holding that voluntary disclosure to the SEC and
DOJ waived work product protection, despite existence of confidentiality agreement with the DOJ

and reliance on the SEC's regulations concerning confidentiality); see also In re Qwest Comm'n

 

Int'l, Inc., 450 F.3d 1179 (10th Cir. 2006) (rejecting selective waiver and holding disclosure

waived work product privilege); Jn re Colubmia/HCA Healthcare Corp., 293 F.3d 289 (6th Cir.

 

2002) (same); United States v. Mass. Inst. of Tech., 129 F.3d 681 (1st Cir. 1997) (same); /n_re

Steinhardt, 9 F.3d 230 (2d Cir. 1993) (same).

 

8 Media reports indicate that Governor Christie was interviewed by the USAO in or about December 2014. Critchley
Dec., Ex. 10.
Case 2:15-cr-00193-SDW Document16 Filed 05/27/15 Page 9 of 13 PagelD: 96
Hon. Susan D. Wigenton, U.S.D.J.

May 27, 2015
Page 9

Setting aside that the Gibson Dunn investigation was financed with millions of dollars in
public funds, and ostensibly in "the best interest of the State,"(R) the investigation, from the start,
was intended to be revealed publicly "without any restriction" and not limited to selectively chosen
facts that purport to support the investigation's conclusions. Clearly, Gibson Dunn reaped the
strategic advantage it sought by selectively disclosing particular information to the public and
holding a televised press conference to release its findings. As such, Gibson Dunn, and/or the
Governor's Office, clearly waived any privilege that may have applied to the materials created
during its investigation.

Moreover, Gibson Dunn, in particular, was on notice that its interview notes were
discoverable once Gibson Dunn voluntarily produced the Mastro Report, selected exhibits and

interview summaries to the USAO and New Jersey Legislative Select Committee on

Investigations, as well as posting the same online for the whole world to access. See Gruss v.

 

Zwirn, 296 F.R.D. 224 (S.D.N.Y. 2013). Gruss involved litigation arising out of an internal
investigation conducted by Gibson Dunn. Gibson Dunn was ordered to produce its attorneys'
notes and summaries of twenty-one witnesses it interviewed during the internal investigation after
disclosing summaries of the witnesses' interviews in a PowerPoint presentation to the SEC. Id. at
226-27.

The plaintiff in Gruss sought disclosure of the factual portions of the interview notes and

summaries reflecting the witnesses' statements, not the portion of the notes and summaries

 

0x00B0 It is unclear under what authority the Acting Attorney General authorized Gibson Dunn to perform an internal
investigation for the Office of the Governor, which was not requested by any law enforcement agency or any other
party. The purely voluntary internal investigation was certainly not an "action" under N.J.S.A. 59:10A-1, which only
provides for a defense in civil actions seeking tort damages. Presumably, the Acting Attorney General concluded that
the internal investigation somehow constituted a "proceeding" under N.J.S.A. 10A-3 which affords the Attorney
General with the discretion to provide a "defense" only if "it is in the best interest of the State."
Case 2:15-cr-00193-SDW Document16 Filed 05/27/15 Page 10 of 13 PagelD: 97

Hon. Susan D. Wigenton, U.S.D.J.

May 27, 2015

Page 10

containing the attorneys' opinions or analytical processes. Id. at 227. Gibson Dunn opposed such
disclosure by asserting the attorney-client and work product privileges. Id. Gibson Dunn's
assertion that "the interview notes constitute, in their entirety, core opinion work product" was
roundly rejected by the court, which found "Gibson Dunn's representation . . . not credible." Id.
at 230-31. The Gruss court noted that by Gibson Dunn "choosing to produce in discovery the
presumably favorable witness interview excerpts shown to the SEC-while refusing to produce
the witness summaries and notes from which the favorable excerpts were drawn-Defendants have
manipulated their evidentiary privileges to serve their interests." Gruss v. Zwirn, No. 09-CV-644,
2013 WL 3481350, at *11 (S.D.N.Y. July 10, 2013), aff'd, 296 F.R.D. 224 (S.D.N.Y. 2013). The
Gruss court held, therefore, that by giving the PowerPoint presentation to the SEC and producing
same in discovery, Gibson Dunn forfeited "any work product protection associated with the factual
portions of the interview notes and summaries." Id. at *13.

Here, by selectively and voluntarily disclosing the Mastro Report, selected exhibits and
purported summaries of the witnesses' statements to the USAO,!0x00B0 New Jersey Legislative Select
Committee on Investigations and the public, Gibson Dunn has similarly forfeited any and all work
product protections associated with the factual portions of its rough and draft interview notes and
summaries. Defendants here, like the plaintiff in Gruss, are seeking the facts contained in the
rough and draft interview notes and summaries. The mechanical function of transcribing what a
witness says in an interview does not in any way reveal counsels' opinions or analytical

processes.'! Attorney rough interview notes reflect nothing more than a factual recitation of the

 

'0x00B0 In addition to producing the Mastro Report and interview summaries, Gibson Dunn also "periodically briefed the
US. Attorney's Office on [its] findings as [its] review progressed." Critchley Dec., Ex. 2 at 36.

'! The Mastro Report makes clear that the purpose and scope of Gibson Dunn's retention was, among other things, to
perform "a thorough investigation of the facts relating to []the George Washington Bridge lane realignment .. . ."
Critchley Dec., Ex. 2 at 36 (emphasis added).
