Heartland Recreational Vehicles LLC v. Forest River Inc

Doc. 48

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
Northern District of Indiana
South Bend Division
HEARTLAND RECREATIONAL
VEHICLES, LLC,
Plaintiff,
v.
FOREST RIVER, INC.,
Defendant.

)
)
)
) CASE NO.:3:08-cv-490 AS- CAN
)
)
)
JURY DEMAND

FOREST RIVER’S MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION TO
“HEARTLAND’S MOTION TO DISMISS CERTAIN CLAIMS FOR LACK OF
SUBJECT MATTER JURISDICTION IN LIGHT OF COVENANT NOT TO SUE”

Summary of the Opposition:
Forest River has alleged that the ‘650 Patent is: not infringed, invalid, and unenforceable.
As a result, Forest River has requested both declaratory judgment relief and monetary damages
(under 35 U.S.C. §285). The case law is perfectly clear that Heartland’s covenant not to sue does
not remove this Court’s jurisdiction over the damages claim. As to the declaratory judgment claim,
Heartland’s covenant not to sue Forest River still leaves a case of substantial controversy and
sufficient immediacy under the totality of the circumstances that jurisdiction remains with this Court.
Agreeing not to sue Forest River directly, while still threatening suppliers which Heartland knows
are indemnified by Forest River, and using a “submarine” patent application to prepare for litigation
against the suppliers is mere procedural gaming, but not a substantive change in Heartland’s intent
to enforce the patent against Forest River’s interests. However, Rule 41(a)(2) does provide the Court
with a means of eliminating the declaratory judgment issues if Heartland now has a change of heart.
1

Dockets.Justia.com

Relevant Factual Background:
To understand fully the present motion, more of the context of this lawsuit should be
discussed. This controversy between Forest River and Heartland is and has been fought on multiple
levels. The present motion demonstrates the interplay between some of those levels.
Superficially, the controversy started as a patent infringement claim brought by Heartland,
asserting that the ‘650 patent was infringed by Forest River. However, Heartland was at the same
time seeking two additional patents (pending before the United States Patent and Trademark Office the “USPTO”), having the same title and being based upon the same invention disclosure as the ‘650
patent (see, e.g., Exhibit A). These additional patents have been referred to in this case as the
“submarine” patents or patent applications, a term of art in patent law referring to continuation
applications used for strategic litigation purposes, typically taking advantage of 35 U.S.C. §282 (first
sentence) to obtain ex parte treatment of litigation evidence. While Forest River was barred by law
from participating in or discovering the full content of the USPTO proceedings for these submarine
patents, it was not unaware of the existence of the patent applications; hence the prior art disclosure
colloquy between the parties prior to the start of this litigation (see, e.g., Exhibit B).
The net result is that much of the prior art and other evidence which Forest River uncovered
(and publicly identified in the Amended Answer, Docket #21) and which was not known to the
USPTO during examination of the application for the ‘650 patent, was later disclosed to the USPTO
during examination of the submarine patents after this lawsuit began (see, e.g., Exhibits C and D).
Without Forest River’s participation in those USPTO proceedings to offer opposing evidence and
2

interpretations, such as would be the case before a court, the first submarine patent was allowed by
the USPTO in a personal hearing discussing this lawsuit (see Exhibit G), and Heartland immediately
paid the Issue Fee to have that patent granted expeditiously. Exhibit A. The two independent
claims, Nos. 34 and 50, of the new patent are remarkably similar to the independent claim of the
‘650 patent (compare page 16 of Exhibit A to the Complaint with Exhibits E and F hereto). In fact,
since the subject matter of the two patents was nearly identical, the USPTO required Heartland to
file a Terminal Disclaimer under 37 CFR 1.321(d), which Heartland did. Exhibit H. It is important
to note, however, that contrary to what Heartland’s attorney said to this Court and contrary to the
testimony of its President (see Exhibit I, pages 179:lines 12-22 and pages 181:line 19 to page
182:line16), Heartland refused to admit to the USPTO that the evidence Forest River had was even
prior art, much less that it invalidated the ‘650 patent! Exhibit J, 2d paragraph.
Accordingly, at this time Heartland has the ‘650 patent and in a few short weeks will have
another patent on virtually the same subject matter. The Covenant Not to Sue, Exhibit A to Docket
#43, upon which Heartland bases the present motion, expressly covers only the ‘650 patent, and not
the new patent. Thus, Forest River faces an imminent threat of direct litigation from the new patent.
Further, Heartland could sue other parties based upon either patent, of course, but the chronological
range of possible damage recovery is greater with the ‘650 patent and the prosecution history of the
new patent can be used to arguably support the validity of the ‘650 patent even over Forest River’s
evidence. Thus, while the new patent may be an independent threat, it also bolsters the existing
threat of the ‘650 patent, and not just against Forest River.
Another level on which the controversy between Forest River and Heartland resides is the
threat of litigation by Heartland against suppliers indemnified by Forest River. After accusing Forest
3

River of patent infringement, Heartland then intentionally accused at least two of Forest River’s
suppliers (Global Composites and Lippert Components) of infringing the same patent. Exhibits K
and L. Heartland’s President admitted this was done “to send a message to Forest River.” Exhibit
I, page 118: line 21 to page 119:line 8. Heartland knew before this lawsuit began that Forest River
had agreed to hold harmless and indemnify at least one of those suppliers against the patent
infringement claim by Heartland, and in fact had even suggested to that supplier “you better make
sure you get it,” referring to the hold harmless agreement. Exhibit M, page 239:line 24 to Page 241:
line 1. The Covenant Not to Sue does not expressly cover Global Composites or Lippert
Components; it only mentions Forest River. In fact, not only has Heartland not given a similar
covenant not to sue to either of those suppliers, it has not at any time backed off from its threats to
sue each of those suppliers. Exhibit I, pages 129 to 136; Exhibit M, page 239 to 240: line 2. Further,
Heartland has maintained that threat to sue at least Global Composites on several occasions. Exhibit
M, page 236.
Also, the Covenant Not to Sue expressly covers only “currently existing products.”
However, even Heartland’s President does not know if Forest River’s current Silverback frame was
meant to be covered by that agreement. Exhibit I, line 178:line 15 to page 181:line 11. Moreover,
as Heartland is well aware, the RV industry and Forest River in particular introduce new products
every model year. Heartland was especially aware of the Surveyor prototype made by Forest River
and under consideration for inclusion in the product line. Amended Complaint, ¶42, Docket #21;
Exhibit M, page 232. Once again, as we are approaching the start of a new model year in August,
Forest River has been thwarted in its desire to add new products to achieve improved turning radius
by the threat of expanded litigation with Heartland. Exhibit N, ¶s 3 and 4.
4

Analysis of the Legal Issues:
1. The Invalidity and Unenforceability Issues Remain for the Damages Claim
All of Heartland’s case law citations and argument point to disposing of litigation claims
which are based solely upon a request for declaratory judgment. There is no question, however, that
claims Forest River has made for damages under 35 U.S.C. §285 on account of the fraudulent and
inequitable conduct (Amended Complaint, ¶61) are not mere declaratory judgment claims and, thus,
must remain in this case even if Heartland voluntarily drops its claims against Forest River. DodgeRegupol, Inc. v. RB Rubber Products, Inc., 585 F. Supp. 2d 645, Part C at 655-6 (M.D. Pa
2008)(detailed discussion of relationship of inequitable conduct counterclaim in the context of a
covenant not to sue); Knauf Fiber Glass, GmbH, v. Certainteed Corp., 204 WL 771257, *1-*2
(S.D. Ind. 2004)(distinguishing the Super Sack doctrine relied upon by Heartland).
The fraud and inequitable conduct claims are based upon and intertwined with the issues of
unenforceability and invalidity. For example, evidence of invalidity is per se “material” under 37
CFR. §1.56; conduct which is fraudulent is axiomatically the basis for unenforceability. Heartland
recognizes this explicitly when it argues to the Court that if all claims involving infringement,
validity, and unenforceability are dismissed, only the Lanham Act and Criminal Deception Claims
remain in the case (see Heartland’s Memorandum in Support, page 3 at FN1). However, the law
does not allow the baby to get tossed out with the bath water. A court’s jurisdiction to rule on
attorneys fees under 35 U.S.C. §285 encompasses the jurisdiction to make findings of inequitable
conduct. Monsanto Co. Bayer Bioscience N.V., 514 F. 3d 1229, 1242 (Fed. Cir. 2008).
If, as it professes, Heartland is serious about ending this aspect of the lawsuit, it could always
divest the Court of jurisdiction over the attorneys fees issue by offering to pay the entire amount.
5

Samsung Elecs. Co., Ltd. v. Rambus, Inc., 523 F. #d 1374, 1379-80 (Fed Cir. 2008). However, the
Covenant Not to Sue did not do so, and Heartland has not made that offer otherwise.

2. The Totality of the Circumstances Keeps Declaratory Judgement Jurisdiction
Forest River agrees that Heartland’s citation of Revolution Eyewear, Inc. v. Aspex Eyewear,
Inc., 556 F. 3d 1294 (Fed. Cir. 2009) provides appropriate guidance on the issue of jurisdiction in
light of a covenant not to sue, particularly the opinion discussion at 1297-98. As that Court noted
in connection with its analysis of SanDisk Corp. v. STMicroelectronics, Inc., 480 F. 3d 1372 (Fed.
Cir. 2007), an agreement not to sue does not necessarily divest the court of declaratory judgment
jurisdiction. Instead, following the standard of MedImmune, Inc. v. Genetech, Inc., 549 U.S. 118,
118-9, 127 S. Ct. 764, 166 L. Ed. 2d. 604 (2007), the court determined that declaratory judgement
is still available when the facts “under all the circumstances, show that there is a substantial
controversy, between the parties having adverse legal interests, of sufficient immediacy and reality.”
This is the so-called “totality of the circumstances” test, considering particular facts and the
relationships involved. Further, “whether a covenant not to sue will divest the trial court of
jurisdiction depends on what is covered by the covenant.” Revolution at 1297.
The circumstances here are that while Heartland purports to let Forest River off the hook for
its products, Heartland has continued to assert its claims against Forest River’s suppliers for their
products, all the while knowing full well that Forest River is the real party in interest and that Forest
River must by contract come to the defense of its suppliers under the hold harmless indemnification
or intervene to protect its sources of supply under an interference with business relations claim (see,
e.g., Exhibit O, pages 2-3). Indeed, the whole reason to bother Forest River’s suppliers was to target
6

Forest River and “send a message to Forest River.” Heartland certainly wanted Lippert to “make
sure you get” that hold harmless agreement from Forest River so that Heartland’s cordial relationship
with Lippert would not be adversely affected by suing Lippert; Forest River would be the party really
bearing the burden. Thus, Heartland could be back in litigation with Forest River not by suing Forest
River, but rather by suing Forest River’s suppliers. This is entirely distinguishable from the
“speculative” nature of the supplier suits consider by the court in Dodge-Regupol.
This threat of end-run litigation is now immediate. The submarine patent game has been
played, and Heartland has done what it set out to do: get the USPTO to “bless” nearly identical claim
subject matter even over the litigation evidence which Heartland’s attorneys told its President
“invalidated” the ‘650 patent (Exhibit I, page 182: lines 11-12). Once the USPTO issued the Notice
of Allowance, Heartland did not wait the three month payment period; instead, it rushed to
immediately pay that fee and get the new patent granted as soon as possible. Exhibit A, compare the
9/15/09 “Due Date” mid way down on the right hand side, with the June 24, 2009 payment date on
the lower right portion. Morever, as noted above, even though the new patent could itself give rise
to a separate lawsuit, it is far more likely that the ‘650 patent would be used for renewed litigation
with the new patent acting in a support role. This results because the period of time for which
damages can be claimed may extend back to the Publication Date of February 23, 2006 for the ‘650
patent while the damages period for the new patent would only be a few months due to the claim
amendments.
In addition, at no time did Heartland admit to the USPTO what it was willing to concede in
its President’s deposition and in oral discussions with this Court, that the ‘650 patent is invalid in
light of the prior art Forest River found. If the new patent alone was the intended focus of any
7

additional litigation, there would be no reason to hide those admissions from the USPTO. On the
other hand, keeping quiet about the validity of the ‘650 patent keeps the threat of that patent alive
independently of the new patent.
Moreover, this is not a case where there is a clear target product which stands accused. The
patent claims specify that the infringing product must be a “travel trailer chassis.” Exhibit A to the
Complaint, last page, last three paragraphs. Heartland has yet to disclose specifically which Forest
River chassis or frames which it considers to be an infringement. Its own President has testified that
he does not even know what Forest River’s accused frame looks like. Under the circumstances, it
is clear that Heartland intended its lawsuit to have wide ranging impact; anything that could be at
risk would be at risk. That intent has been achieved in that Forest River has been reluctant to expand
its product lines with new features. Exhibit N. Petersen Mfg. Co., Inc., v. Adjustable Clamp Co.,
Inc., 30 USPQ 2d 1193, 1199-1200 (N.D. Ill. 1993)(reluctance to expand product line shows
reasonable apprehension sufficient to retain jurisdiction).
Also, there are objective indications that the so-called Covenant Not to Sue was a deliberate
sham. As pointed out in an earlier motion in this case, Docket #44 at page 5, when it presented the
subject motion to dismiss Forest River’s claims, Heartland did not bother to seek to dismiss its own
claims for patent infringement. That omission was pointed out to Heartland on May 29, 2009, and
has not been corrected since then. Accordingly, Heartland is presently in breach of the Covenant,
and Forest River is entitled to, and indeed required by the pleading rules, maintain all of its defensesincluding those of non-infringement, invalidity, and unenforceability.
If Heartland does dismiss its infringement claims, is Forest River nonetheless absolutely
certain that Heartland is about to sue one of its suppliers and state the litigation over again? No, but
8

it does not need to be. Implant Innovations, Inc. v. Nobelpharma AB, 1994 WL 68498 at *2 (N.D.
Ill. 1994)(patent undergoing re-examination still presents a reasonable apprehension of litigation
under certain circumstances despite withdrawal of lawsuit - “reasonable apprehension does not
require absolute certainty”). Clearly, under the circumstances of this lawsuit Forest River’s
apprehension of continued litigation is a reasonable conclusion. All of the circumstances considered,
and all the relationships between the parties, the two patents, and the claims, there truly is a
substantial controversy, between the parties having adverse legal interests, of sufficient immediacy
and reality to justify retention of declaratory judgment jurisdiction.

3. Evaluating the Substance of the Motion under Rule 41(a)(2)
Viewing the present motion most charitably to Heartland, one may assume that the substance
of the motion was an effort to obtain voluntarily dismissal under Fed. R. Civ. P. 41(a)(2), tendering
the Covenant as “terms” for the Court to consider “proper.” Heartland seeks the dismissal to be
without prejudice “given the procedural posture,” according to its Memorandum in support of this
motion, at FN 2. Obviously, there is more to the procedural posture of this case than Heartland lets
on, as evidenced by the fact that we are up to Docket #47 already and that there have been extensive
discovery disputes centered around alleged “stalling” by Heartland1, and the fact that there has been
1

That discovery stalling has had an impact on Forest River’s response to the present
motion as well. As pointed out in a prior motion, Docket #44, Forest River served a Notice of
Deposition of Heartland under Rule 30(b)(6) as to the patent prosecution procedures so as to
bring to this Court’s attention substantive similarities in the scope of the claims and in the
arguments made to the USPTO regarding prior art, level of ordinary skill in the art, etc.
Heartland has failed to provide a witness to testify. Rather than defer any response to the present
motion further, Forest River responds herein without that information to add to the totality of the
circumstances, and will seek to amend its response at a later date if that deposition becomes
available.
9

a complete end run around this Court through at least one submarine patent.
Nonetheless, Forest River submits that Rule 41(a)(2) does provide the Court with a means
of eliminating both the declaratory judgment issues and Heartland’s claims of patent infringement.
If Heartland is truly not going to use the ‘650 patent any more to sue Forest River directly or
indirectly, the Court could condition dismissal upon it being “with prejudice,” even though “without
prejudice” is requested. LeBlang Motors, Ltd., v. Subaru of America, Inc., 148 F. 3d 680, 687 (7th
Cir. 1998). Alternatively, the Court could condition dismissal upon Heartland accepting a consent
order that the ‘650 patent is not valid. Either condition would be appropriate given Heartland’s
admissions in open Court as to the invalidity effect of the prior art cited by Forest River. Naturally,
such a dismissal would resolve many of the ambiguities raised by the current form of covenant not
to sue and substantially alter the nature of Forest River’s objections to the present motion. Similarly,
as pointed out above, if Heartland truly wants even the damages claims to “go away,” the Court
could offer to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction even there if Heartland agrees to reimburse all of Forest
River’s legal expenses incurred in connection with the ‘650 patent issues. See Hinfin Realty Corp.
v. The Pittston Co., 212 F.R.D. 461,462 (E.D. N.Y. 2002)(courts often grant fee awards when a
plaintiff dismisses without prejudice under Rule 41(a)(2)).

Conclusions:
The present motion should be denied or a grant conditioned upon terms which resolve the
flaws in Heartland’s analysis in accordance with the discussion above.

Dated: July 6, 2009

Respectfully submitted,
10

s/Ryan M. Fountain
___________________________
Ryan M. Fountain (#8544-71)
RyanFountain@aol.com
420 Lincoln Way West
Mishawaka, Indiana 46544
Telephone: (574) 258-9296
Telecopy: (574) 256-5137
Attorney for Defendant Forest River, Inc.

Certificate of Service
I certify that on July 6, 2009, I electronically filed the foregoing document with the Clerk of the
Court using CM/ECF system, which sent notification of such filing to all of the parties through at
least the following counsel of record:
David P. Irmscher
Abigail M. Butler

david.irmscher@bakerd.com
abidgail.bulter@bakerd.com
s/Ryan M. Fountain
_______________________
Ryan M. Fountain
Attorney for Defendant Forest River, Inc.

11

INDEX OF EXHIBITS
Exhibit A

Fee Transmittal Statement for Continuation patent to ‘650 Patent

Exhibit B

Oct. 2, 2208 letter from Forest River to Heartland

Exhibit C

Supplement IDS from Heartland in Continuation patent case

Exhibit D

IDS from Heartland in Continuation patent case

Exhibit E

Allowed Claims, page 1, in Continuation patent case

Exhibit F

Allowed Claims, page 2, in Continuation patent case

Exhibit G

Dec. 4, 2008 Interview Summary of Heartland meeting with USPTO Examiner

Exhibit H

Terminal Disclaimer in Continuation patent case

Exhibit I

Excerpts of Brady deposition transcript

Exhibit J

Dec. 5, 2008 IDS cover sheet from Heartland to USPTO

Exhibit K

Heartland infringement demand letters to Lippert

Exhibit L

Global response to Heartland infringement demand letter

Exhibit M

Excerpts of Rhymer deposition transcript

Exhibit N

Declaration of Jeff Babcock

Exhibit O

Aug. 29, 2008 letter from Forest River to Heartland

12

