Case 2:16-cv-13900-JTM-KWR Document 27 Filed 05/09/17 Page 1 of 11

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA
STACY MORGAN AND A-PLUS
CONTRACTORS, L.L.C.

*

CIVIL ACTION NO. 16-13900

*

DISTRICT JUDGE MILAZZO

*

MAG JUDGE: ROBY

VERSUS
AMERICAS INSURANCE COMPANY
*
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

PLAINTIFF’S, STACY MORGAN AND A-PLUS CONTRACTORS, L.L.C.’S,
MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION TO DEFENDANT, AMERICAS INSURANCE
COMPANY’S MOTION TO COMPEL EXAMINATION UNDER OATH AND
APPRAISAL AND STAY LITIGAOTIN PENDING APPRAISAL
May It Please The Court:
Now comes plaintiffs, STACY MORGAN AND A-PLUS CONTRACTORS, L.L.C.
(hereinafter “the plaintiffs” or “The America’s Insureds By Assignment”), who hereby submit the
instant Memorandum In Opposition to defendant Americas Insurance Company’s (hereinafter
“AIC”) Motion To Compel Examination Under Oath And Appraisal And Stay Litigation Pending
Appraisal. In short, the AIC motion should be denied for the following reasons:
Why This Motion Should Not Be Granted:
1) America’s has taken contradictory positions in its Court pleadings in an attempt to
delay and/or avoid payment to its insured. AIC first demanded an appraisal and
examination, and simultaneously argued in Court that plaintiffs were not insureds;
2) The Appraisal Process can no longer be utilized since there is no dispute on the value
of the damage. Plaintiffs made the actual repairs which amounted to $90,442.54, of
which only $46,931.22 was paid by AIC. The incurred expense section of the policy of
insurance now governs this fact scenario which is 100% different from AIC cited
jurisprudence;
3) The Defense Firm Representing AIC was in active communication with plaintiffs,
through counsel, in scheduling the Examination Under Oath (“EUO”) prior to filing
suit. However, AIC simultaneously took a contradictory position in claiming that the
plaintiffs were not insureds under the policy and the EUO was never scheduled. Thus,

Case 2:16-cv-13900-JTM-KWR Document 27 Filed 05/09/17 Page 2 of 11

AIC had no intention of ever paying this claim in violation of La.R.S. 22:1892 and/or
22:1973.

I. FACTS AND BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs filed suit with the Civil District Court for the Parish of Orleans on June 14, 2016
against defendant, AIC. The petition and entire claim is based on a valid “Assignment of Benefits”
form signed by the America’s policyholder Hollis Burton and the owner of A-Plus Contractors,
L.L.C. There is no dispute that the assignment of benefits contract is valid between the plaintiffs,
and the AIC insured, Hollis Burton.1 It is also undisputed that plaintiff A-Plus Contractor, L.L.C.
was the contractor who performed fire repairs to Hollis Burton’s home in 2015.
A-Plus Contractors and Stacy Morgan were paid some portion of their work, but, there
remains an outstanding amount of $43,511.32 owed to plaintiffs from Hollis Burton, and by virtue
of the assignment of benefits form, from AIC. Moreover, since the previous AOB form was
examined by this Court, it is in evidence and is an affidavit of by plaintiffs of what is still owed
for the repairs performed at this home.
On March 28, 2016, plaintiffs sent to AIC a demand for payment after being assigned all
of the insurance rights from AIC.2 In response, AIC did two things which are contradictory to
one another which is indicative of arbitrary treatment and a direct violation of the Louisiana
Supreme Court Kelly doctrine described infra.3 Simply-put, AIC attempted to both demand an
Examination Under Oath of the plaintiffs (recognizing the plaintiffs were insureds) and also

See Record Document No. 19. This Court ruled in an Order dated February 6, 2017 that the plaintiffs may “step
into his [the assignor’s] shoes and assert any claims that he may have related to AIC, including breach of contract
claims” and bad faith claims.
2
See Exhibit “A” - Demand letter sent by the plaintiffs to AIC demanding payment pursuant to the valid AOB
contract.
3
Kelly v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., 2014-1921 (La. 5/5/15).
1

Case 2:16-cv-13900-JTM-KWR Document 27 Filed 05/09/17 Page 3 of 11

simultaneously attacked the validity of the Assignment of Benefits agreement and argued
plaintiffs were not insureds. First, AIC was attempting to schedule an examination under oath of
the plaintiffs (which insurers can do if allowed in the policy) after receiving the demand back in
March of 2016. Undersigned counsel and opposing counsel Christine Bergeron with the Monson
Law Firm were actively discussing the scheduling of the EUOS in June and July of 2016.4
However, a mutually convenient date was never selected for the EUO, but an EUO was never
disallowed by plaintiff.
Due to continued non-payment by AIC, a lawsuit was then filed in Civil District Court for
the Parish of Orleans. Then, on August 23, 2016, after this case was removed to Federal Court,
AIC filed their 12(b)(6) Motion To Dismiss in which this Court acknowledge in the later
Judgment that AIC was challenging the actual AOB contract. 5 Thus, AIC was attempting to avoid
payment at all costs in both arguing that the plaintiffs were insureds but were also not insureds.
Based on AIC’s own actions described above which is evidencing in documentation and via Court
Pleadings, AIC was arguing two different positions which were contradictory, and were clearly
done to avoid any type of consideration of payment.6
Thus, AIC’s actions both prior to and during the pendency of this litigation are arbitrary
treatment by AIC in violation of La.R.S. 22:1892 and 22:1973. Specifically, Louisiana Law on

See Exhibit “B” – Communications between plaintiffs and AIC through counsellors of record in scheduling the
EUO.
5
See Record Document No. 19 – “This appears to the Court to be a challenge to the validity of the AOB, whereby
Burton assigned to Plaintiffs “all remaining benefits for his insurance policy with America’s Insurance Company”
relative to the 2015 fire claim. As a post-loss assignee, Plaintiffs acquired those rights possessed by the assignor at
the time of the assignment, essentially stepping into Burton’s shoes.”
6
Plaintiffs will be filing a Motion for Partial Summary Judgment against AIC on the bad faith issues, in particular
regard to contradictory positions taken by a Louisiana Regulated Insurance company to obviously avoid payment.
This is completely seminal issue which, by research, has never been evaluated by the Judiciary (a Louisiana insurer
taking contradictory provisions on whether or not an insured is an actual insured under the policy.)
4

Case 2:16-cv-13900-JTM-KWR Document 27 Filed 05/09/17 Page 4 of 11

insurer treatment encompasses all treatment, whether before or during the pendency of any
lawsuit. Since this Court ruled on February 6, 2017 that the plaintiffs were, indeed, proper
plaintiffs to assert any and all causes of action it may have against AIC, a number of things have
happened which violated the Kelly doctrine discussed Infra.
Now, in particular regard to the request by AIC that it should be allowed to stay this
litigation is incorrect for the following reasons:
1) First, there is no dispute as to the value and amount of the loss sustained by the
plaintiff in this matter. The plaintiff, who is the assignee of the policy, is the actual
contractor who performed the actual repair work on the home. This is not a situation
in which an “Estimate” has been created which would lead to a dispute with an
insurance carrier who would have a competing estimate. The work was done, and was
incurred by the plaintiff (the contractor) in repairing this fire damaged home. This
renders the application of the appraisal provision misguided and useless. It would
merely add unnecessary costs to all parties in this case. The policy has a direct
provisions in relation to incurred expenses which now governs this scenario;
2) Second, plaintiffs have never refused to provide an EUO to AIC. By virtue of the
attached communications between plaintiffs and AIC, the EUOS were being
scheduled on the calendars of both attorneys. An EUO can be performed now,
together or immediately prior to any deposition, without any need to stay this matter.
This could have been a simple request sent by opposing counsel outside of the need
of Court involvement. Thus, the only part of this argument which is being addressed
by plaintiffs will be the request that any EUO be done simultaneously with a
deposition to avoid the plaintiffs being subjected to two (2) separate examinations and

Case 2:16-cv-13900-JTM-KWR Document 27 Filed 05/09/17 Page 5 of 11

giving the defendant two bites at the apple, when plaintiffs would only be allowed to
question AIC and any witness one (1) time.
II. LAW AND ARGUMENT
A. America’s, A Louisiana Regulated Insurance Company, Is Required To Treat Its
Policyholders In Good Faith. Here, America’s Simultaneously Argued That Stacy
Morgan and A-Plus Contractors, L.L.C. Were Not Insureds And Also Argued That
They Were Subject To An Appraisal And EUO. This Means That AIC Was
Attempting Stall Tactics, If Not An Attempt To Avoid Paying This` Claim
Throughout This Process.
A Louisiana insurer, including but not limited to a foreign line and surplus line insurer, owes
to his insured a duty of good faith and fair dealing. The Louisiana insurer has an affirmative duty
to adjust claims fairly and promptly and to make a reasonable effort to settle claims with the
insured or the claimant, or both. La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 22:1973 Under La. R.S. Art. 22:1973
(formerly La. R.S. Art. 22:1220) Specifically, the insurance bad faith statutes state the following:
A. Any one of the following acts, if knowingly committed or performed by an
insurer, constitutes a breach of the insurer's duties imposed in Subsection A of
this Section:
(1) Misrepresenting pertinent facts or insurance policy provisions relating to
any coverages at issue.
(2) Failing to pay a settlement within thirty days after an agreement is reduced to
writing.
(3) Denying coverage or attempting to settle a claim on the basis of an application
which the insurer knows was altered without notice to, or knowledge or consent
of, the insured.
(4) Misleading a claimant as to the applicable prescriptive period.
(5) Failing to pay the amount of any claim due any person insured by the contract
within sixty days after receipt of satisfactory proof of loss from the claimant
when such failure is arbitrary, capricious, or without probable cause.
(6) Failing to pay claims pursuant to R.S. 22:1893 when such failure is arbitrary,
capricious, or without probable cause.

Case 2:16-cv-13900-JTM-KWR Document 27 Filed 05/09/17 Page 6 of 11

B. In addition to any general or special damages to which a claimant is entitled for
breach of the imposed duty, the claimant may be awarded penalties assessed
against the insurer in an amount not to exceed two times the damages sustained
or five thousand dollars, whichever is greater. Such penalties, if awarded, shall
not be used by the insurer in computing either past or prospective loss
experience for the purpose of setting rates or making rate filings. La. Rev. Stat.
Ann. § 22:1973
If after applying the other general rules of construction an ambiguity remains, the ambiguous
insurance contractual provision is to be construed against the drafter, or, as originating in the
insurance context, in favor of the insured. This rule of strict construction requires that ambiguous
policy provisions be construed against the insurer who issued the policy and in favor of coverage
to the insured. Smith v. Matthews, 611 So.2d 1377, 1379 (La.1993), Under this rule, "[e]quivocal
provisions seeking to narrow the insurer's obligation are strictly construed against the insurer, since
these are prepared by the insurer and the insured had no voice in the preparation." Garcia v. St.
Bernard Parish School Bd., 576 So.2d 975, 976 (La.1991). LSA-C.C. Art. 2056 codifies this rule
of strict construction, providing that "[i]n case of doubt that cannot be otherwise resolved, a
provision in a contract must be interpreted against the party who furnished its text. A contract
executed in a standard form of one party must be interpreted, in case of doubt, in favor of the other
party." LSA-C.C. Art. 2056; Civil Law Treatise, supra § 4; see also W. Freedman, 2 Richards on
the Law of Insurance § 11:2[f] (6th Ed.1990) (noting that the rule of strict construction is also
labeled the doctrine of contra proferentum).
The Louisiana Supreme Court In Kelly Recently Stated The Following About How A
Louisiana Insurer Must Act In This State. AIC Has Not Complied With Louisiana Law:
Kelly reasoned:
the insurer has undertaken the obligation to protect the insured. “[I]n every case,
the insurance company is held to a high fiduciary duty to discharge its policy
obligations to its insured in good faith-including the duty to defend the insured
against covered claims and to consider the interests of the insured in every
settlement.” Id. At 341

Case 2:16-cv-13900-JTM-KWR Document 27 Filed 05/09/17 Page 7 of 11

…
Therefore, in light of the jurisprudence and the remedial intent of La. R.S.
22:1973(A), we return to the first clause of the certified question, which asks: Can
an insurer be found liable for a bad-faith failure-to-settle claim under subsection
A of La. R.S. 22:1973? Having determined that the plain language supports the
existence of a cause of action in favor of the insured under La. R.S. 22:1973(A),
we answer this question affirmatively Id. At 338.
…
In sum, we provide the following answer to the second certified question. An
insurer can be found liable under La. R.S. 22:1973(B)(1) for misrepresenting or
failing to disclose facts that are not related to the insurance policy's coverage; the
statute prohibits the misrepresentation of “pertinent facts,” without
restriction to facts “relating to any coverages.” Id. At 328
The Court is very much aware of the position of AIC in previously attempting to dismiss this
matter in attacking the validity of the Assignment. Now, the Court is aware that AIC also sent out
correspondence prior to litigation requesting an EUO and an Appraisal. This activity simply
violates Kelly in that AIC was misrepresenting pertinent facts to its insureds.
B. The Demand For Appraisal Is Way Too Late In The Process Since The Work Is
Already Done On The Home. AIC Could Have Demanded An Appraisal With Its
Original Insured, Hollis Burton, Prior To Any Work Being Performed.
The work on this home was already completed by the plaintiffs (the contractor with the
assignment of benefits). That repair number will not change. Thus, utilizing an appraisal of work
already done is non-sensical and is simply a way for AIC to stretch out and delay this litigation
and increase needless costs to the plaintiffs. Further, AIC has cited numerous cases which are not
controlling in any way to this Court. Nowhere does it cite a case in which the plaintiffs were the
actual contractor who performed the work on an incurred basis, and then the insurance company
could later seek an appraisal of that actual work. All of their cited jurisprudence on the appraisal
topic is non-instructive. None of their cited cases deal with an assignment of benefits to a

Case 2:16-cv-13900-JTM-KWR Document 27 Filed 05/09/17 Page 8 of 11

contractor who already performed the work previously subject to the appraisal process. Indeed, the
policy states as follows, which is contained on Page 36 of 55 in Record Document NO. 24-5:

Appraisal provisions in insurance contracts are strictly construed. St. Charles Par. Hosp.
Serv. Dist. No. 1 v. United Fire & Cas. Co., 681 F.Supp.2d 748, 754 (E.D. La.2010) Citing Branch
v. Springfield Fire & Marine Ins. Co., 198 La. 720, 4 So.2d 806, 809 (1941) The reasonable cost
incurred for this fire loss (which is indisputably a covered loss) were the repairs made by the
plaintiffs, the assignee of the AIC policy. Thus, the amounts are owed by policy terms. Further,
there is nothing left to appraise since the home has been repaired. The appraisal process involves
the use of estimates submitted by appraisers for work yet to be completed. See Long v. Am. Sec.
Ins. Co., 2010-0026 (La. App. 4 Cir. 11/17/10, 2), 52 So.3d 260, 262, writ denied, 2011-0026 (La.
2/18/11),

57

So.3d

336

(ASIC

ASIC's appraiser's estimate totaled

retained
$116,932.10.

an appraiser and
Substantially

notified

Mr.

higher,

Long.
Mr.

Long's appraiser's estimate totaled $513,335.07); Dufrene v. Certain Interested Underwriters at
Lloyd's of London Subscribing to Certificate No. 3051393, 11-1002 (La. App. 5 Cir. 3/27/12, 7),
91 So.3d 397, 401, writ denied, 2012-0930 (La. 6/15/12), 90 So.3d 1065 (written submissions by
the appraisers for each party to the Umpire may consist of reports, estimates, photographs and/or
other documents illustrating the scope of damages found and the cost of repair of those damage).

Case 2:16-cv-13900-JTM-KWR Document 27 Filed 05/09/17 Page 9 of 11

The Honorable Sarah Vance stated the following about appraisals in the case in St. Charles
Par. Hosp. Serv. Dist. No. 1 v. United Fire & Cas. Co., 681 F.Supp.2d 748, 760 (E.D. La.2010),
in which the matter before her dealt with challenges to an appraisal award based on submitted
estimates:

Defendant points to three alleged errors in the award. First, it claims that the award
relies upon an estimate to repair the roof of the hospital that totals over one
million dollars. It notes, however, that the supporting documentation reveals
an estimate for approximately $840,000. Defendant points to O'Leary's deposition
testimony, in which O'Leary stated that the original estimate from the roofing
company was $840,000, but that the company later provided a revised estimate that
reflected the larger figure. O'Leary Deposition, R. Doc. 83, Ex. 7 at 202–208. He
did not have a copy of this later estimate, and defendant argues that it is not to be
found in any of the documentation that was exchanged during the appraisal
process and subsequent court proceedings.

Moreover, the decision cited by AIC from the Honorable Jay Zainey in the America’s Insurance
Company v. Billie Jean Haynes and Delvese Haynes matter dealt with an un-repaired home, which
allowed for two appraisers to inspect the home and create estimates of the loss for those inspected
damages.7 Thus, that is a completely difference factual scenario and not binding on the instant fact
pattern. Simply-put, the instant facts illustrate that the work was already done on this home by the
plaintiffs. There is nothing left to inspect or evaluate. The amount of the repair was incurred by
the plaintiffs, which mandates payment under the incurred expense section of the insurance policy
on Page 36 of 55 in Record Document NO. 24-5. That section of the policy governs this situation.
There is no possibility for estimates to be created from separately hired appraisers since the work
was already done. AIC could have demanded an appraisal long ago when the loss occurred and
prior to repair, yet, it failed to do so rendering the appraisal provision of the policy meaningless.

7

It should be noted that AIC actually sued its own policyholders in that matter, with case No. 2015-6232. Undersigned
counsel is representing the Haynes in that matter. The home was not yet fully repaired when the appraisal was
performed after Judge Zainey ordered the appraisal.

Case 2:16-cv-13900-JTM-KWR Document 27 Filed 05/09/17 Page 10 of 11

To force the appraisal process now would be procedurally deficient, and add costs to the plaintiffs
which have already been damaged in not being paid for the incurred work. Although AIC is correct
in its brief that appraisals are allowed in policies and enforceable in the State, none of those cases,
and, to the knowledge of plaintiff counsel, no decision exists requiring an appraisal to be done on
completely performed work. That would be an absurd reading of the policy of insurance and yield
absurd results (the plaintiffs paying an appraiser to tell the plaintiffs that its incurred work was
incurred). LSA-C.C. Art. 2056 codifies this rule of strict construction, providing that "[i]n case of
doubt that cannot be otherwise resolved, a provision in a contract must be interpreted against the
party who furnished its text. A contract executed in a standard form of one party must be
interpreted, in case of doubt, in favor of the other party." LSA-C.C. Art. 2056; Civil Law Treatise.
In reading the appraisal clause, and in reading all of the jurisprudence cited herein which involves
estimates and inspections of damages, no appraisal can be performed, now, on work already
completed for a loss which occurred back in 2015. That is simply against the goals of the appraisal
process which is utilized after the loss occurs, and before the repair work is completed. Moreover,
it is completely impossible for any appraiser to go back in time and view the home in the postloss, fire damaged, pre-repaired condition. It simply does not work.
III. CONCLUSION
WHEREFORE, defendants, STACY MORGAN AND A-PLUS CONTRACTORS,
L.L.C., respectfully request that this Court deny America Insurance Company’s Motion To
Compel Examination Under Oath and Appraisal and Stay Litigation Pending Appraisal. The
instant factual scenario is completely different than a typical appraisal situation. The repair work
has already been completed. By virtue of the policy of insurance, there is nothing left to inspect
by newly hired appraisers who, by law, would be required to submit estimates for un-performed

Case 2:16-cv-13900-JTM-KWR Document 27 Filed 05/09/17 Page 11 of 11

repair work. Thus, since the work has actually been incurred, this triggers the incurred expense
section of the policy cited in this memorandum. To order the appraisal, now, would add excessive
costs to this matter against the plaintiffs (who have not been fully paid) in being required to hire
an appraiser to then tell the plaintiffs that it incurred and performed the work. That is absurd.
Further, the plaintiffs have never objected to providing an Examination Under Oath or deposition.
Plaintiffs, however, request an Order from the Court requiring any formal examination to be done
only one (1) time, on one (1) day to prevent the defendant from getting two (2) attempts to depose
the plaintiffs. To allow otherwise would be prejudicial to the plaintiff.
Respectfully submitted:
LAHATTE LAW FIRM, L.L.C.

/s Joseph "Joey" F. LaHatte III
______________________________________
Joseph “Joey” F. LaHatte, III No. 31224
4405 Zenith Street Suite A
Metairie, Louisiana 70001
Telephone:
(504) 309-2996
Facsimile:
(855) 733-8180
joey@lahattelaw.com
Attorney for Stacy Morgan and A-Plus Contractors,
L.L.C.
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify by my signature that a copy of the foregoing pleading has been served on
counsel for all parties electronically and is available for viewing or downloading from the ECF
system, or by placing same in the United States mail to, all parties listed below, those who have
not received electronic notification, postage prepaid, addressed to their respective offices, this 9th
day of May, 2017.
/s Joseph "Joey" F. LaHatte III
____________________________________
JOSEPH “JOEY”F. LAHATTE, III

