UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND

ROBERT CARLOW
JAMES PERRY
WILLIAM PERRY and
DAVID GORMAN
:

STANLEY MRUK and
CONRAD BURNS in their personal and
official capacities

Civil Action 04- 325- S

:

PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Pursuant to Rule 56 (a), the Plaintiffs move for summary judgment against both defendants. In
support thereof, Plaintiffs rely upon the memorandum and exhibits attached hereto.
Plaintiffs, by their attorney,

ES
GARY D. BE-TZ,
For the American Civil
Rhode Island Affiliate
One James Street
Providence, RI 02903
Tel: 75 1-7671
Fax: 751-1146
CERTIFICATION
I certify that I mailed a copy of this statement to : George H. Rinaldi, Esq. 72 Pine Street,
day of July, 2005.
Providence, RI 02903 this

y

UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND
ROBERT CARLOW
JAMES PERRY
WILLIAM PERRY and
DAVID GORMAN
-v.STANLEY MRUK and
CONRAD BURNS in their personal and
official capacities

:

Civil Action 04- 325- S

:

MEMORANDUM OF LAW IN SUPPORT OF SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Factual Backmound:
This action raises separate questions of law which the Court is capable of
answering on the basis of the agreed- upon facts. These issues are therefor ripe for summary
judgment. The Plaintiffs are all firefighters in the Anthony District, but not residents of the
District, (see agreed statement of facts, based upon admitted allegations of the complaint). As
such, they have had long- running issues with the management of the Fire District, which has
been run by Defendant Stanley Mruk as chief since 1961.
At the December 9,2003 meeting of the Fire District, the Plaintiffs were in attendance.
Because they believed that the conduct of the annual financial meeting was not done in
accordance with the law or the will of the voters, the Plaintiffs brought video cameras to the
meeting for the purpose of taping it. (Complaint, 7 17). Defendant Burns announced that only
the press would be able to record the meeting. (Defendant's answer, Minutes of the meeting,
page 1).
Later, Plaintiff Gorman was removed from the meeting when he went to the soda machine,
on the grounds of disrupting the meeting, (Complaint, 7 20 -22). Plaintiff Carlow is also
president of the firefighters union, see Defendant's Answer, 7 1, and has previously prevailed in
an action against Chief Mruk over free- speech issues in this Court (Carlow v. Mruk 02-538 -

ML). Carlow was threatened with removal fiom the meeting on the grounds of disruption when
he got up to go the bathroom. Based upon discovery and the answer filed by the Defendants, the
"disruption" to the meeting the Defendants cite is the possibility of the Plaintiffs (who are not
voters in the financial fire district) would move into the section cordoned off for the voters and to
speak or vote. Nothing in the Fire District by- laws closes the meetings to non- voters or
prevents them speaking, only fiom voting.

QUESTIONS PRESENTED:

I. Was the order limiting audio or video recording of the meeting to members of the press
constitutional?
11. Did the removal of Plaintiff Gorman, and threatened removal of Plaintiff Carlow violate their

first amendment rights?
Discussion of the Law:

I. Was the order limiting audio or video recording of the meeting to members of the press
constitutional?
This question is one of settled law. At his deposition, Defendant Burns testified that he was
banning recording of the meeting by persons not in the press on the advice of legal advice he
received fiom counsel that he declined to identifl, citing privilege. The United States Supreme
Court has stated several times (first in a case relating to trial coverage) that "The First
Amendment does not guarantee the press a constitutional right of special access to information
not available to the public generally. Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U.S. 665,684,92 S.Ct 2646,
2658,33 L. Ed. 2d 626 (1972). This was affirmed six years later "the press has no greater right
to information about a trial superior to the general public ..." Nixon v. Warner Communications,
435 U.S. 589 (1978). Since then, the rights of the press and the public to access and to record

>

proceedings have always been treated as equal.

Newman v. Graddick, 696 F.2d 796, (1 1"

Cir., 1983). Although there is arguably no right to videotape governmental proceedingsper se,
there can be no serious contention that the public has no right to access to the meeting or that it
has any less right than the press to videotape it.
The Defendants' suggestion in their motion to exceed the page limit for memoranda that the
right to videotape is an open question in this Circuit is also not entirely correct. It has been held
that allegations that restrictions on the recording of public meetings violate substantive due
process rights are determined by whether they are reasonable in time place, and manner. The
Financial Fire District Meeting is a limited public forum. Rosenberg v. Rector and Visitors of
Univ. 515 U.S. 819, 829 (1995), at which the public generally has the same rights as it would in a
public fonun. The Second Circuit and Seventh Circuit have held that restrictions upon
videotaping (or audiotaping) in a public forum be content neutral and reasonable. Woods v.
Township of West Whiteland, 193 F. 3rd,177 (3rdCir. 1999), citing United States v. Kerley, 753
F.2d 617,620-621 (7&Cir., 1985) and United States v. Yonkers Board of Education, 747 F.2d
11 1,114 (2d Cir. 1984). Although Woods held that there is no federal constitutional right to
videotape a public meeting, the distinction made by the Defendants here between press
recordings and those made by the public can not withstand legal scrutiny- they cannot pass the
reasonableness test, especially in light of the prior well- known Supreme Court rulings cited
above.
For the reasons stated above, the Court must find that the Defendants abridged the Plaintiffs'
First Amendment rights to videotape the December 9,2003 meeting.

11. Did the removal of Plaintiff Gorman, and threatened removal of Plaintiff Carlow violate their

first amendment rights?

Like the previous question, the law is generally settled.

Woods v. Township of West

Whiteland, supra. discusses the public right of access to a local planning commission meeting, a
body more or less analogous to the Fire District. The public's right of access turns upon a two
part analysis- whether the place and process has historically been open to the press and general
public, and whether public access plays a significant positive role in the functioning of the
particular process in question. Id.,at 183, citing Press- Enterprise Co. v. Superior Court, 478
U.S. 1, (1986). There is a six prong test in the Third Circuit used to decide the second prong of
the test- 1) promotion of informed discussion of governmental affairs by providing the public
with an understanding of the judicial system; 2) promotion of the public perception of fairness
which can be achieved only by providing the public a M l view of the proceedings; 3) providing a
significant theraputic value as an outlet for community concern, hostility, and emotion, 4) serving
as a check on corrupt practices by exposing the judicial process to public scrutiny; 5)
enhancement of the performance of all involved; and 6) discouragement of perjury.

Id.

The Woods court had no trouble finding a right of public access to the planning commission
meeting. Nothing in the opinion suggests that the right of access is predicated on legal standing
to participate in a vote at the meeting. The Plaintiffs here have an established track record as
critics of the firefighting policy and spending habits of the Anthony Fire District. Whether the
Defendants agree or not, it certainly is in the public interest for firefighters in the Anthony
District to have access to and be heard at the financial meeting.
The claim of the Defendants that they were afraid that the Plaintiffs would move into the
voters section and attempt to vote constituted disruption (Defendants' answer, 7 21), does not
bear scrutiny. The meeting hall was not filled to capacity (Burns deposition, Page 5 Lines 1224). The Plaintiffs were certainly known to Fire District officials, and Plaintiff Goman was not
removed from the voters section, but from the soda vending machine in the rear of the hall. (Id.
Page 15 Lines 10-21 ). Plaintiff Carlow was threatened with removal because he got up to go to

the bathroom. Clearly, the real reason for the Defendant's actions was to intimidate the Plaintiffs
from questioning firefighting practices or the incumbent management of the Anthony Fire
District.

The First Circuit has considered the question of what constitutes disruption of a public forum
(ironically in a case in which the Plaintiff was arrested for videotaping a public meeting.,
although the right to videotape was provided by the Massachusetts Open Meeting Law).
Although the analysis of what constitutes "disruption" turns on Massachusetts law, it is clear that
First Amendment concerns trump the statutory prohibitions. Iocobucci v. Boulter, no. 97-1485
(1". Cir. 1999), copy appended hereto. Expressions protected by the First Amendment are not

subject to disorderly conduct statutes. Id.,page 7.
Judge Selya also analyzes what constitutes entitlement to qualified immunity. Although the
opinion speaks to an actual arrest, as opposed to the removal of Gorman, the criteria are much the
same: whether his removal was objectively legally reasonable.

Id.,page 8.

Given the history

between the parties, and the admitted facts surrounding Gorman's removal and Carlow's
threatened removal, there can be no reasonable basis to provide the Defendants with any cloak of
qualified immunity. These Defendants could not reasonably believe that Gorman or Carlow
were "disruptive" in any objective way suficient to justify removing them. The factual
background suggests that the real reason for the removal and threatened removal was to squelch
criticism of the Fire Department from its employees.
For the above- stated reasons, Summary Judgment should enter in favor of the Plaintiffs.
Respectfully submitted,

TABLE OF AUTHORITIES
CASES
Branzburg v. Hayes. 408 U.S. 665.684. 92 S.Ct 2646.2658. 33 L. Ed . 2d 626 ( 1 972).............2
5
Iocobucci v. Boulter. no. 97- 1485 ( 1". Cir. 1999).......................................................................
Newman v. Graddick. 696 F.2d 796. (1 lthCir.. 1983).................................................................3
2
Nixon v. Warner Communications. 435 U.S. 589 ( 1 978)............................................................
Press- Enterprise Co. v. Superior Court. 478 U.S. 1. ( 1986)......................................................4
-3
Rosenberg v. Rector and Visitors of Univ. 5 1 5 U .S. 8 1 9. 829 ( 1 995)........................................
United States v. Kerley. 753 F.2d 617. 620-621 (7thCir.. 1985) .................................................
3
United States v. Yonkers Board of Education. 747 F.2d 1 1 1. 114 (2d Cir. 1984)........................3
Woods v. Township of West Whiteland. 193 F . 3rd.177 (3rdCir. 1999)...................................3 4
STATUTES
First Amendment......................................................................................generally

UNITED S T A T E S DISTRICT COURT
FOR T H E DISTRICT O F RHODE ISLAND

ROBERT CARLOW, JAMES PERRY,
1
WILLIAM PERRY and DAVID GORMAN )
)

VS.

)

Civil Action 04-325-S

1
S T A N L E Y M R U K and C O N R A D BURNS )
i n their personal and official )
capacities
1

Deposition o f C O N R A D BURNS taken o n behalf of
the Plaintiffs o n Friday, April 29, 2005, at the
offices o f Gary D. Berkowitz, One James Street,
Providence, Rhode Island, commencing a t 1:58 p . m .
before Dianne M. Dillon, Notary Public within and for
the S t a t e of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.

APPEARANCES

. . . . . . FOR T H E PLAINTIFFS

BY:

G A R Y D. BERKOWITZ, ESQ.

BY:

G E O R G E H. RINALDI, ESQ. . . . . . . FOR T H E DEFENDANTS

CALLAGHAN REPORTING SERVICE
CRANSTON, RI, 02910

k

,

1

Q

Do you remember where it was held?

2

A

Yes, Oddfellows Hall, Washington Street.

3

Q

I believe it's a club or a service?

4

A

It's a mason building.

5

Q

Do you know what the seating capacity of the building
is?

6

7

A

8

9

Offhand, no.

It's posted, and it's one of the things

I have to watch for while I'm moderator.

Q

Do you recall whether the building has a capacity of

10

more or less than one hundred people?

11 A

I don't.

12

Q

Do you recall how many people were at the meeting?

13

A

I don't have a count.

14

If I had to say, roughly,

sixty, seventy.

15

Q

Was the building full, or were there empty seats?

16

A

Empty seats.

17

Q

According to Mr. Mruk, the seating was divided into

18

two sections; one for voters in the fire district, and

19

the other for nonvoters, is that correct?

20

A

That is correct.

21

Q

Was the voters' section fully occupied?

22

A

No.

23

Q

Was the nonvoters' section fully occupied?

24

A

No.

25

Q

Were there any signs or markers indicating which was
CALLAGHAN REPORTING SERVICE
CRANSTON, RI, 0 2 9 1 0

officer. to eject him.
Was Mr. Gorman a voter or a nonvoter?
He was a nonvoter.

I see.

Was he in the voters' section when he was

removed?
Yes.
Where is the vending machine in relation to the
voters' and nonvoters' seating?
The extreme end of the hall.
The voting and nonvoting 'sections were divided to the
left and right side of the hall, is that accurate; the
front and back?
The whole right side, from me facing to the front of
the hall, on my right was all voting.

On the left,

the back section was all nonvoting.

And the vending machine was behind all of those seats
against the wall?
Yes, but he started off by walking into the voting
area.
But he was at the vending machine when he was removed?
Yup.

I should say, yes, sir.

I have no rank.

You don't have to call me sir.

I don't like "yup."
Was anyone later removed from the meeting?
I don't remember.

I don't think so.

There may have

CALLAGHAN REPORTING SERVICE
CRANSTON, RI, 02910

- No. 97-1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999)

'

Page 1 of 11

No. 97-1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999) Iacobucci v. Boulter
Federal Appellate District: 1st
United States Court of Appeals For the First Circuit

RICHARD IACOBUCCI, Plaintiff, Appellee,
v.
WILLARD BOULTER, Defendant, Appellant.

RICHARD IACOBUCCI, Plaintiff, Appellant,
v.
WILLARD BOULTER, Defendant, Appellee.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF
MASSACHUSETTS
[Hon. Patti B. Saris, U.S. District Judge]
Before Selya, Circuit Judge, Cyr, Senior Circuit Judge, and Lipez, Circuit Judge.
J. Russell Hodgdon, with whom Petze & Hodgdon was on brief, for plaintiff.
Stephen C. Pfaff, with whom Douglas I. Louison and Merrick, Louison & Costello were on brief, for
defendant.
October 4,1999
SELYA, Circuit Judge.
Earlier this year, the Supreme Court decided Kolstad v. American Dental Ass'n, 119 S. Ct. 2 118
(1999), affording a fresh perspective on the circumstances under which juries may award punitive

damages in federal civil rights cases. These cross-appeals require us to revisit the punitive damages
threshold in light of Kolstad. After acquitting this responsibility and addressing other pertinent issues,
we affirm the judgment below.
I. BACKGROUND
On the evening of March 26, 1991, Richard Iacobucci, the plaintiff herein, visited the Pembroke
Town Hall to videotape a scheduled meeting of the Pembroke Historic District Commission (the
Commission). Such forays were mother's milk to Iacobucci, who intermittently filmed sessions of local
boards, including the Commission, for a weekly news program that he produced and broadcast via a
cable television outlet.
On the evening in question, the Commission's stated purpose was to review building applications.
The commissioners sat along three sides of a four- sided conference table. As he had done in the past,
Iacobucci positioned his tripod at the unoccupied end of the table. Soon after the meeting commenced,
the chairman, Otis Hathon, twice asked Iacobucci to move his equipment across the room. Iacobucci

--No. 97-1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999)

*

Page 2 of 11

Gecfined, explaining that his view of the commissioners' and applicants' faces would be obstructed.
Hathon did not suffer rejection gladly; at one point, he extinguished the lights, remarking: I hope your
camera can see in the dark. When this petulance failed to sway Iacobucci, Hathon warned him of the
possibility of arrest should he fail to move. That warning, too, fell on deaf ears, prompting a
commissioner to alert the local constabulary.
Two Pembroke police officers, Flannery and Jenness, responded. They asked Iacobucci to turn off
the camera and talk with them in the corridor. Iacobucci replied that he had a right to record the
proceedings, that he intended to exercise it, and that he would not converse until the meeting ended. The
stalemated officers called their superior, Sergeant Willard Boulter (the principal defendant herein).
The meeting adjourned before Sgt. Boulter arrived, presumably because the last applicant had not
appeared. Iacobucci packed his gear. He then noticed the commissioners speaking in the hallway with a
man carrying a set of plans. Believing that man to be the tardy applicant, Iacobucci retrieved his camera
and began filming the group on the assumption that he was witnessing a de facto resumption of the
adjourned meeting. Iacobucci persisted despite importunings from some of the commissioners to stop.
Sgt. Boulter arrived at that juncture, stepped in front of the lens, and demanded that Iacobucci cease
and desist. Iacobucci demurred, sidestepped adroitly, and resumed his journalistic endeavor. This pas de
dew continued until Sgt. Boulter gave Iacobucci an ultimatum: sit down or be arrested. When Iacobucci
kept filming, Boulter took the camera from him, grabbed his elbow, led him into another room,
handcuffed him, and placed him under arrest.
The police transported Iacobucci to the station house and charged him with disorderly conduct and
disrupting a public assembly. Iacobucci spent about four hours in custody before the authorities released
him. When he reclaimed his camera, he discovered that the videotape no longer contained any images
and that the sound track was barely audible.
The criminal charges eventually were dismissed, but Iacobucci (a law school graduate, although not
a practicing attorney) filed a pro se civil action that asserted a golconda of claims against numerous
defendants. We need not dwell on the details, because pretrial proceedings winnowed the trialworthy
issues to three claims pressed by Iacobucci against Boulter. These included claims under 42 U.S.C. 5
1983 premised on false arrest and excessive force, respectively, and a state-law claim premised on
intentional infliction of emotional distress. The three claims were tried to a jury, which found for Boulter
on two of them. On the section 1983 false arrest claim, however, the jury sided with Iacobucci and
awarded him $75,000 in compensatory damages and $135,000 in punitive damages.
The verdict did not please Boulter. He renewed his earlier motion for judgment as a matter of law
and asked, alternatively, for a new trial or for a remittitur. The district court struck the punitive damages,
but otherwise denied Boulter's post-trial motions. Both parties now appeal.
11. BOULTER'S APPEAL
Like all Gaul, Boulter's appeal is divided into three parts. He assails the district court's handling of
the section 1983 false arrest claim because the court (1) should not have permitted the claim, if ever
properly in the case, to go to trial; (2) improvidently admitted evidence that was both irrelevant and
prejudicial; and (3) erred in rejecting a qualified immunity defense. We examine these asseverations
seriatim.
A. The Status of the Section 1983 False Arrest Claim.

- No. 97-1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999)

Page 3 of 11

he wrangling over this issue breaks down into two subsidiary questions: Was the section 1983 false
arrest claim properly pled? If so, did it survive summary judgment? The district court answered both
questions affirmatively. So do we.
In narrowing the issues immediately prior to trial, a dispute arose concerning what claims were
outstanding. Boulter considered only two claims to be zoetic: a section 1983 excessive force claim and a
state-law claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress. In contrast, Iacobucci took the position
that a section 1983 false arrest claim also remained in the case. After reviewing the complaint and the
summary judgment record, the lower court concluded that Iacobucci had adequately pled a section 1983
false arrest claim, and that this claim had not been addressed (let alone terminated) at the summary
judgment stage. Consequently, the court allowed Iacobucci to litigate the claim.
Fed. R. Civ. P. 8(a)(2) requires that a complaint contain a short and plain statement of the claim
showing that the pleader is entitled to relief. The complaint in this case satisfied that undemanding
criterion vis-a-vis the section 1983 false arrest claim: it specifically alleged that Boulter, while acting
under color of state law, violated Iacobucci's constitutional right to be secure in his person and
wronghlly deprived him of his liberty. This language, coupled with a prayer for money damages,
adequately stated a section 1983 false arrest claim.
To be sure, the claim could have been pled more clearly. Here, however, Boulter has not identified a
scintilla of prejudice that may have resulted from any obscurity in the wording of the plaintiffs
complaint, nor is any such prejudice readily apparent. The section 1983 false arrest claim arises out of
the same nucleus of operative fact as the other two tried claims (both of which Boulter acknowledges
were in the case all along), and the parties' discussions with the court immediately before the start of
trial clarified any uncertainty about whether the section 1983 false arrest claim was to be litigated. The
sockdolager is this: had prejudice loomed, Boulter could have asked the court for a continuance. His
failure to do so leads ineluctably to the conclusion that any claim of unfairness that he now might assert
is nothing more than a post hoc rationalization sparked by a verdict that was not to his liking. See Faigin
v.Kelly,F.3d
,
(1st Cir. 1999) [No. 98-1589, slip op. at 341 (explaining that a reviewing
court may attribute special significance to the party's eschewal of a continuance and assume that the
party did not require additional time to adjust his litigation strategy).
We likewise reject Boulter's plaint that the section 1983 false arrest claim, even if pled, did not
survive the district court's summary judgment order. In hawking this proposition, Boulter points to the
concluding passage in the trial court's summary judgment ruling, in which Judge Saris stated: With
respect to Sergeant Boulter, the motion is DENIED on the excessive force claim pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 8
1983, and the intentional infliction of emotional distress claim. Otherwise it is ALLOWED. Boulter
maintains that these final four words laid to rest any incipient section 1983 false arrest claim.
This argument is too cute by half. It overlooks that Boulter's motion, which set the stage for the
court's summary judgment ruling, never sought brevis disposition as to the section 1983 false arrest
claim. Thus, when Boulter made this very argument below, the district court rejected it, explaining that
the otherwise language spoke only to the claims that had been debated in the summary judgment papers
- and that the section 1983 false arrest claim was not among that number. A trial court ordinarily is the
best expositor of its own orders, see United States v. Podolsky, 158 F.3d 12, 17 (1st Cir. 1998); Martha's
Vineyard Scuba Headquarters, Inc. v. Unidentified, Wrecked and Abandoned Steam Vessel, 833 F.2d
1059, 1066-67 (1st Cir. l987), and Boulter offers no convincing reason why we should ignore this
salutary principle here. Because the district court reasonably interpreted its own order as not terminating
the section 1983 false arrest claim, we honor its interpretation.

B. The Evidentiary Question.

-'No. 97- 1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999)

Page 4 of 11

Boulter next insists that the trial court erred in admitting the partially erased videotape into evidence.
He bases this insistence on three grounds: lack of relevance, lack of a proper foundation, and undue
prejudice. We review challenges to orders admitting or excluding evidence for abuse of discretion. See
Faigin, -F.3d at
[slip op. at 241; Williams v. Drake, 146 F.3d 44,47 (1st Cir. 1998). We discern
none here.
The facts are these. The videotape itself had been erased by parties unknown (although Iacobucci
understandably suspected the police). At any rate, the audio portion of the tape picked up after the time
that the police took Iacobucci into custody. It apparently recorded contemporaneous conversations
amongst Boulter and his fellow officers. Boulter's objection runs to the admissibility of those comments.
Boulter's first line of attack emphasizes the temporal sequence. He argues that an after-the-fact
recording necessarily lacks relevance. This ipse dixit is simply wrong. Evidence of subsequent events
frequently sheds light upon, and thus assumes relevance in relation to, antecedent acts. See United States
v. Lara, 181 F.3d 183,204 (1st Cir. 1999); United States v. Sutton, 970 F.2d 1001, 1007 (1st Cir. 1992);
United States v. Mena, 933 F.2d 19,25 n.5 (1st Cir. 1991).
In this instance, the district court supportably determined that rational jurors might find that some of
the statements made on the tape referred back to what had transpired at the time of the arrest. We
recount a sampling in the margin. 1 Relevancy is a fluid concept under the Evidence Rules. See Fed. R.
Evid. 401 (defining relevant evidence as having any tendency to make the existence of any material fact
more probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence). Consequently, relevancy
typically presents a rather low barrier to admissibility. See, e.g., Fitzgerald v. Expressway Sewerage
Constr., Inc., 177 F.3d 71,75 (1st Cir. 1999); United States v. Saccoccia, 58 F.3d 754,780 (1st Cir.
1995). Taking into account that the excessive force, emotional distress, and false arrest claims were
being tried together, we conclude that Judge Saris acted within the encincture of her discretion in
deciding that the challenged statements cleared this hurdle.
Boulter's second line of attack centers on his contention that the audio portion of the tape ought to
have been excluded because Iacobucci's enhancement of it somehow destroyed the tape's integrity. This
contention amounts to a claim that the evidence lacked a proper foundation. Such claims are committed
to the trial judge's informed discretion. See United States v. Ladd, 885 F.2d 954, 956 (1st Cir. 1989); see
also Fed. R. Evid. 90 1(a), 100 l(2) & 1002.
Boulter's contention trenches on the frivolous. Iacobucci testified to the chain of custody. He also
testified that he did not alter the tape in any way, but, rather, enhanced the sound by the simple
expedient of listening to it on a high-quality play-back system that increased its audibility. The judge
(and the jury, for that matter) were free to credit this testimony, especially since Boulter offered no
evidence to contradict it. No more was exigible.
Boulter's final line of attack postulates that the failure to identifl the voices on the tape prior to its
admission into evidence created unfair prejudice. See Fed. R, Evid. 403.2 This argument, too, strikes us
as insubstantial.
As noted above, the tape itself was properly authenticated prior to its admission. Thereafter, several
witnesses (mainly police officers) testified as to the identities of the speakers. Moreover, the officers
whose voices were alleged to have been captured on the tape (Boulter among them) testified at trial; the
jury thus had the opportunity to determine for itself who spoke which lines.
Against this backdrop, we see no Rule 403 problem. The rule does not aspire to eliminate prejudice -

- No. 97-1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999)

Page 5 of 11

;-fter all, most evidence is offered precisely because the proponent believes it will prejudice the
factfinder in his favor - but only to eliminate unfair prejudice. See, e.g., Veranda Beach Club Ltd.
Partnership v. Western Sur. Co., 936 F.2d 1364, 1372 (1st Cir. 1991); United States v. RodriguezEstrada, 877 F.2d 153, 156 (1st Cir. 1989). Given the sound track's potentially significant probative
value (especially in regard to Boulter's state of mind as it pertained to the section 1983 excessive force
claim) and the absence of any unfairly prejudicial impact, we cannot fault the district court's overruling
of Boulter's Rule 403 objection. See Freeman v. Package Mach. Co., 865 F.2d 1331, 1340 (1st Cir.
1988) (Only rarely - and in extraordinarily compelling circumstances - will we, from the vista of a cold
appellate record, reverse a district court's on-the-spot judgment concerning the relative weighing of
probative value and unfair effect.).
C. Qualified Immunity.
42 U.S.C. ยง 1983 provides a private right of action against officials who, while acting under color of
state law, deprive individuals of federally assured rights. But this kind of rights-violating conduct does
not translate automatically into money damages, for a state actor may enjoy an immunity (absolute or
qualified). In this instance, Boulter says that the lower court erred in failing to exonerate him based on
the doctrine of qualified immunity.
Qualified immunity is a medium through which the law strives to balance its desire to compensate
those whose rights are infringed by state actors with an equally compelling desire to shield public
servants fiom undue interference with the performance of their duties and from threats of liability which,
though unfounded, may nevertheless be unbearably disruptive. Buenrostro v. Collazo, 973 F.2d 39,42
(1st Cir. 1992) (citing Harlow v. Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. 800, 806 (1982)). Hence, state officials exercising
discretionary authority are entitled to qualified immunity insofar as their conduct does not transgress
clearly established constitutional or federal statutory rights of which a reasonably prudent official should
have been aware. Id. To ascertain a defendant's eligibility for such immunity, a court must inquire into
the objective legal reasonableness of the defendant's actions, gauged in connection with the mosaic of
legal rules that were clearly established when the defendant acted. See Anderson v. Creighton, 483 U.S.
635,639 (1987). In operation, the outcome of this inquiry depends substantially upon the level of
generality at which the relevant 'legal rule' is to be identified. Id.
Iacobucci asserts that Boulter, a policeman acting under color of his official authority, lacked
probable cause to arrest him and thereby violated his Fourth Amendment rights. In this wise, he
observes that a citizen's right to be free from arrest in the absence of probable cause has long been
clearly established. See, e.g., Beck v. Ohio, 379 U.S. 89,91 (1964). That observation sweeps so broadly,
however, that it bears very little relationship to the objective legal reasonableness vel non of Boulter's
harm-inducing conduct. See Wilson v. Layne, 119 S. Ct. 1692, 1699-1700 (1999). The right the official
is alleged to have violated must have been 'clearly established' in a more particularized, and hence more
relevant, sense. Anderson, 483 U.S. at 640. Our inquiry, then, reduces to whether a reasonable police
officer, standing in Boulter's shoes, would have known that arresting Iacobucci for disorderly conduct,
under all the attendant circumstances, would contravene clearly established law. That inquiry must
proceed in light of the commonly held understanding that probable cause exists only if the facts and
circumstances within the arresting officer's knowledge are sufficient to lead an ordinarily prudent officer
to conclude that an offense has been, is being, or is about to be committed, and that the putative arrestee
is involved in the crime's commission. Logue v. Dore, 103 F.3d 1040, 1044 (1st Cir. 1997).
Before wrestling with this question, we pause to voice some procedural concerns. Boulter first raised
the issue of qualified immunity in a pretrial motion for summary judgment. Although he tries in this
forum to assign error to the denial of that motion, a pair of procedural impediments frustrates the
attempt. For one thing, an order denying summary judgment typically does not merge into the final

- No. 97-1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999)

Page 6 of 11

)rldgment and therefore is not an independently appealable event if the case thereafter proceeds to trial.
See Eastern Mountain Platform Tennis, Inc. v. Sherwin-Williams Co., 40 F.3d 492,497 (1st Cir. 1994).
For another thing, in his notice of appeal, Boulter purported to challenge only the amended judgment
entered by the district court on March 3 1, 1997 - a decree sparked by the court's denial of his motion for
judgment as a matter of law. It is black-letter law that a notice of appeal must specify the order or
judgment to which the appeal is addressed. Lehrnan v. Revolution Portfolio LLC, 166 F.3d 389,395 (1st
Cir. 1999) (citing Fed. R. App. P. 3(c)). Boulter's failure to specify the order denying summary
judgment in his notice of appeal thus bars his current attempt to contest the propriety of that ruling. See
id.
In all events, the district court supportably concluded that Boulter's summary judgment motion did
not seek to test the bona fides of the section 1983 false arrest claim. See supra Part II(A). Since the
scope of the protection afforded by the doctrine of qualified immunity is claim- specific, see, e.g.,
Feliciano-Angulo v. Rivera-Cruz, 858 F.2d 40,48 (1st Cir. 1988); Vazquez Rios v. Hernandez Colon,
8 19 F.2d 3 19,326-28 (1st Cir. 1987), this omission means that Boulter could not have raised a qualified
immunity defense as to that claim at the summary judgment stage. And Boulter's assertion in the motion
papers of a qualified immunity defense in regard to Iacobucci's section 1983 excessive force claim
cannot fill this void.
Notwithstanding these infirmities, the qualified immunity issue is not a dead letter. Although
qualified immunity normally should be resolved early in the litigation, see Mitchell v. Forsyth, 472 U.S.
5 11,526 (1985), the defense, if preserved, may be pressed at later stages, including in a timeous posttrial motion. See, e.g., Consolo v. George, 58 F.3d 791,794 (1st Cir. 1995). Because Boulter filed such a
motion and now assigns error to its denial, the issue must be addressed. 3
In the ordinary course, we review the district court's denial of qualified immunity de novo, aligning
the evidence most favorably to the non-movant and drawing all reasonable inferences in his favor. See,
e.g., Camilo- Robles v. Hoyos, 151 F.3d 1, 8 (1st Cir. 1998); Amsden v. Moran, 904 F.2d 748,752-53
(1st Cir. 1990). But this familiar formulation of the standard arises in connection with pretrial orders
granting or denying qualified immunity, and Iacobucci maintains that the intervening trial and verdict
pretermit (or, at least, reconfigure) the inquiry. He points out that when Boulter made the arrest, he
charged Iacobucci with having committed two offenses: disorderly conduct and disturbing a public
assembly. Iacobucci notes correctly that this charging decision circumscribes the inquiry into probable
cause. Building on this foundation, he posits that we need not look beyond the verdict, in which the jury,
answering a special interrogatory, found that no reasonable police officer would have believed that
Iacobucci had committed either offense. Boulter resists this approach: he asserts that the jury's merits
determination neither extinguishes nor bears upon his claim of entitlement to qualified immunity.
Not surprisingly, there is a middle ground. A state actor may be entitled to qualified immunity for
rights-violating conduct as long as he had an objectively reasonable basis for believing that his conduct
would not abridge the rights of others. See Camilo-Robles v. Zapata, 175 F.3d 4l,43 (1st Cir. 1999);
Quintero de Quintero v. Aponte-Roque, 974 F.2d 226,228 (1st Cir. 1992). This means, of course, that
the reasonableness standards underlying the probabli cause and qualified immunity inquiries are not
coterminous. See Anderson, 483 U.S. at 641. Thus, the jury's determination does not squarely answer
the question whether Boulter's conduct in arresting Iacobucci satisfied the criterion of objective legal
reasonableness so as to entitle him to qualified immunity.
Nor does the procedural posture in which Boulter's appeal arises greatly influence the standard of
review. When a qualified immunity defense is pressed after a jury verdict, the evidence must be
construed in the light most hospitable to the party that prevailed at trial. See Thompson v. Mahre, 110

-

No. 97-1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999)

Page 7 of 11

6.3d 716, 721 (9th Cir. 1997); Kames v. Skrutski, 62 F.3d 485,494 (3d Cir. 1995); Posr v. Doherty, 944
F.2d 91,95-96 (2d Cir. 1991). One difference is that, in such an exercise, deference should be accorded
to the jury's discernible resolution of disputed factual issues. See Frazell v. Flanigan, 102 F.3d 877,886
(7th Cir. 1996).
With this paradigm in mind, we turn to the facts. The first of the two charges on which Boulter
arrested Iacobucci - disorderly conduct - implicated Mass. Gen. Laws c. 272, 8 53.4 In pertinent part,
the statute makes it a misdemeanor to be a disorderly person. To stave off constitutional attacks, the
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court (SJC) originally construed section 53 to provide that one is guilty
under that rubric

... if, with purpose to cause public inconvenience; annoyance or alarm, or recklessly creating a risk
thereof, he: (a) engages in fighting or threatening, or in violent or tumultuous behavior; or (b) makes
unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterance, gesture or display, or addresses abusive language to
any person present; or (c) creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act which serves
no legitimate purpose of the actor.
Alegata v. Commonwealth, 23 1 N.E.2d 201,211 (Mass. 1967) (quoting Proposed Official Draft of
Model Penal Code $250.2).
In the next decade, the SJC narrowed this definition of disorderly conduct to encompass only
activities not implicating the lawful exercise of a First Amendment right. Commonwealth v. A Juvenile,
334 N.E.2d 617,628 (Mass. 1975). To ensure that result, the SJC modified its earlier definition by
striking subsection (b) entirely and interpreting subsections (a) and (c) to cover only conduct, not
expressive activity. See id. at 629. Consistent with this approach, the SJC subsequently held that a
verbal challenge, even when coupled with a refusal to obey a police officer's orders, does not constitute
disorderly conduct within the meaning of section 53 as long as done in fbrtherance of a legitimate
purpose. See Commonwealth v. Feigenbaum, 536 N.E.2d 325,328 (Mass. 1989). To this extent, then,
the contours of the disorderly conduct statute were clearly visible when Boulter confronted Iacobucci at
the Pembroke Town Hall.
Context is important in police work, as elsewhere in human intercourse. Thus, upon being apprised
of the ongoing events at the Town Hall, Boulter recognized that the circumstances required a reasonable
police officer to take into account the Massachusetts Open Meeting Law, Mass. Gen. Laws c. 39, tj 23B,
and he took steps to refresh his recollection of that enactment. The statute requires that [all1 meetings of
a governmental body ...be open to the public, and confers a right to videotape such meetings on any
person in attendance. The right to videotape is not unfettered: the camera must be fixed in one or more
designated locations determined by the governmental body, and the taping may not actively interfere
with the conduct of the meeting. Id. Withal, the statute does not apply to any chance meeting, or a social
meeting at which matters relating to official business are discussed so long as no final agreement is
reached. Id.
Given this background, we are constrained to conclude that, taking the evidence in the light most
flattering to Iacobucci, his constitutional right to act as he did without being arrested for disorderly
conduct was sufficiently clear that a reasonable official would [have understood] that what he [was]
doing violate[d] that right. Anderson, 483 U.S. at 640 ;accord Wagenmann v. Adarns, 829 F.2d 196,
209 (1st Cir. 1987).
Taking first the events that transpired in the meeting room, we note that Iacobucci had satisfied the
basic prerequisites for entitlement to videotape a public meeting under the Open Meeting Law: he had

-

No. 97-1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999)

Page 8 of 11

aiGated his tripod in the only stationary location that would allow the mounted camera to capture the
faces of both the commissioners and the applicants and there is no significantly probative evidence that
his activities interfered with the ongoing meeting. 5 Indeed, his equipment had been placed in the very
same location during prior Commission meetings, without incident. Moreover, after Hathon tired of
trying to bully Iacobucci, the instant meeting proceeded without disruption and the Commission
completed its business unimpeded by the filming. Iacobucci remained cool, calm, and collected
throughout. Under the circumstances and in light of the clearly established law that obtained at the time
of the incident, we agree with Judge Saris that an objectively reasonable officer would not have thought
that Iacobucci was subject to arrest for disorderly conduct.
Taking next the hallway episode, we find nothing whatever to suggest that Iacobucci was fighting or
threatening, or was engaged in any violent or tumultuous behavior. A Juvenile, 334 N.E.2d at 628; see
,
(1st Cir. 1999) [No. 98-2080, slip op. at 161. On any
also Sheehy v. Plymouth, -F.3d
version of the events reflected in the record, no objectively reasonable police officer would have
believed that Iacobucci had created a hazardous or physically offensive condition... which serve[d] no
legitimate purpose. A Juvenile, 334 N.E.2d at 628. Even if the gathering was not a public meeting at that
point, Iacobucci was doing nothing wrong: he was in a public area of a public building; he had a right to
be there; he filmed the group from a comfortable remove; and he neither spoke to nor molested them in
any way. 6
Boulter's repeated demands that Iacobucci cease recording do not change the disorderly conduct
calculus. A police officer is not a law unto himself; he cannot give an order that has no colorable legal
basis and then arrest a person who defies it. So it is here: because Iacobucci's activities were peaceful,
not performed in derogation of any law, and done in the exercise of his First Amendment rights, Boulter
lacked the authority to stop them.
The other ground of arrest fares no better under close scrutiny. That ground implicated Mass. Gen.
Laws c. 272, 5 40, which makes it a misdemeanor to willfully interrupt[] or disturb[] a school or other
assembly. As to the events that transpired in the meeting room, the record, read as it must be in the light
most favorable to Iacobucci, contains no evidence that he interrupted or disturbed the Commission's
meeting. See supra note 5 and accompanying text. As to the events that transpired in the hallway,
Boulter was adamant in his insistence that the hallway gathering was not a public meeting.
There is no point in flogging a dead horse. We conclude that the district court did not err in holding
that Boulter's arrest of Iacobucci failed to attain the level of objective legal reasonableness. Hence,
Boulter was not entitled to qualified immunity.
111. IACOBUCCI'S APPEAL
Although voicing doubts about whether a satisfactory foundation for punitive damages had been
laid, the district court prudently reserved judgment on that question and sent it to the jury. After the
jurors awarded Iacobucci $75,000 in compensatory damages and $135,000 in punitive damages, Boulter
moved for relief. Concluding that the evidence failed to warrant punitive damages, the district court
struck that portion of the award (albeit leaving intact the compensatory damages). Iacobucci contests
this ruling. We review the lower court's decision de novo, taking the facts and the reasonable inferences
therefrom in the light most congenial to the jury's verdict. See Correa v. Hospital San Francisco, 69 F.3d
1184, 1188 (1st Cir. 1995).
The district court's approach accurately foretold that taken by the Supreme Court a few months later
in Kolstad v. American Dental Ass'n, 119 S. Ct. 21 18 (1999). 7 Punitive damages become a

No. 97- 1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999)

Page 9 of 11

discretionary matter for the jury in a section 1983 action only if the plaintiff makes an adequate
threshold showing. A plaintiff reaches that threshold when the defendant's conduct is shown to be
motivated by evil motive or intent, or when it involves reckless or callous indifference to the federally
protected rights of others. Smith v. Wade, 461 U.S. 30, 56 (1983).
Kolstad sheds considerable light on Smith and the circumstances under which a judge may permit a
jury to consider a request for punitive damages in a civil rights case. The Smith standard, visualized
through the Kolstad lens, confirms that there is a different focus for compensatory as opposed to
punitive damages. See Kolstad, 119 S. Ct. at 2124. The special showing needed to trigger eligibility for
punitive damages, which the Smith Court called evil motive or reckless or callous indifference, Smith,
461 U.S. at 56, pertains to the defendant's knowledge that [he] may be acting in violation of federal law,
not [his] awareness that [he] is engaging in discrimination, Kolstad, 119 S. Ct. at 2124. Thus, the
standard requires proof that the defendant acted in the face of a perceived risk that [his] actions [would]
violate federal law. Id. at 2125. While egregious or outrageous acts may serve as evidence supporting an
inference of the requisite 'evil motive,' the presence (or absence) of such acts does not in itself determine
the propriety (or lack of propriety) of punitive damages in a given case. Id. at 2 126.
To make out a jury question on punitive damages under this subjectively oriented test, Iacobucci
needed to adduce evidence sufficient to prove that Boulter arrested him in the face of a perceived risk
that doing so would violate Iacobucci's federally assured rights. More specifically, Iacobucci needed to
adduce evidence sufficient to show that Boulter determined to effectuate the arrest knowing that he
lacked probable cause to do so, or, at least, with conscious indifference to the possibility that he lacked
probable cause. 8
We realize that the district court instructed the jury to determine whether Boulter had acted
intentionally or recklessly in arresting Iacobucci, and that the jury, by returning a plaintiffs verdict on
the section 1983 false arrest claim, necessarily found that Boulter's conduct fit into that proscribed
category. This mens rea finding, however, does not clear the way for punitive damages. The state of
mind required to make out a cognizable section 1983 claim (at least one grounded in false arrest) differs
importantly from that required to justifl punitive damages. See Kolstad, 119 S. Ct. at 2124. The former
requirement relates only to the conduct, not to the consequence; that is, it entails an intent to do the act,
not to effect a civil rights violation. See id.
On this issue, the district court concluded that although Boulter made an objectively unreasonable
split-second decision when he arrested Iacobucci, no evidence suggested that he harbored any malice or
acted with reckless indifference to Iacobucci's constitutional rights. After carefully scrutinizing the
record, we agree with this assessment. Viewed most favorably to Iacobucci, the evidence reveals that
when apprised of the contretemps, Boulter called a selectman to get a better sense of the Open Meeting
Law. Upon his arrival, he attempted to piece together a complete picture of the evening's events. He then
made several attempts to defuse a contentious situation. Only after his attempted intercessions were
rebuffed did he effect an arrest. This constellation of facts does not lend itself to the inference that
Boulter acted with an evil motive or a conscious awareness that the arrest might violate Iacobucci's civil
rights. Where, as here, the evidence shows no more than that an exasperated police officer, acting in the
heat of the moment, made an objectively unreasonable mistake, punitive damages will not lie.
Laboring to close this gap, Iacobucci suggests that the partially erased videotape contains evidence
indicative of a state of mind conducive to punitive damages. He points to a statement contained therein
from which (he says) the jury could have inferred that the videotape had been erased to provide cover
against a potential excessive force claim. The jury, however, found for Boulter on the section 1983
excessive force count - and the videotape contains nothing that bears on Boulter's motives in connection
with the arrest. We conclude, therefore, that this evidence fails to lift the punitive damages issue into the

-*No.97-1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999)

Page 10 of 11

realm of the jury's discretion.
To summarize, the district court acted appropriately in defenestrating the punitive damages award.
The dearth of record evidence, direct or circumstantial, as to Boulter's evil motive andlor subjective
awareness that he lacked probable cause to arrest Iacobucci suffices to defeat the claim for punitive
damages as a matter of law.
We add a coda. Precedent in this circuit had interpreted Smith to mean that in civil rights cases
requiring proof of intentional wrongdoing, the state of mind necessary to trigger liability for the wrong
is at least as culpable as that required to make punitive damages applicable. Rowlett v. Anheuser-Busch,
Inc., 832 F.2d 194,205 (1st Cir. 1987). Kolstad plainly rejects that interpretation. To the extent that
Rowlett fails to draw a distinction between the state of mind requirement anent the actor's conduct and
the state of mind requirement anent the effects of that conduct, it is no longer good law, and we disavow
it.
IV. CONCLUSION
We need go no further. For the reasons set forth above, we reject all three appeals and leave the
parties where we found them.
Affirmed. Each party to bear his own costs.
Footnotes
The sound track contained, inter alia, statements by various police officers, Boulter included, to the
following effect:

- Just what are you accusing me of doing here?

- Ooh, erasing evidence?
- Evidence of what?
- Of police brutality.
- If you call grabbing his f.....g elbow police brutality.
The rule provides:
Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by
the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or misleading the jury, or by considerations of
undue delay, waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
Fed. R. Evid. 403.
To be sure, Iacobucci argues that Boulter waived the defense at this stage of the litigation. We need
not probe the point too deeply. The district court addressed qualified immunity head-on in its post-trial
rescript and we assume, for argument's sake, that no waiver transpired.

'- No.

-

97-1485 (1st Cir. 10/04/1999)

Page 11 of 11

The statute provides in pertinent part:

Common night walkers, common street walkers, both male and female, common railers and
brawlers, persons who with offensive and disorderly acts or language accost or annoy persons of the
opposite sex, lewd, wanton and lascivious persons in speech or behavior, idle and disorderly persons,
disturbers of the peace, keepers of noisy and disorderly houses, and persons guilty of indecent exposure
may be punished [as provided by law].
Mass. Gen. Laws c. 272, 5 53.
Although the chairman did order Iacobucci to move the camera at some point after the meeting
began, he did not designate an alternative location, and, in any event, the record evinces no reasonable
basis for requiring relocation to a position that would nullifl effective recording of the proceedings.
It is no defense for Boulter to say that he believed the group was engaged in private conversation.
Filming such a conversation on public property in pursuit of an indisputably legitimate purpose clearly
was not disorderly conduct within the statutory definition. See Feigenbaum, 536 N.E.2d at 328; cf.
Swerdlick v. Koch, 721 A.2d 849,858 (R.I. 1998).
The Kolstad Court examined the punitive damages provision found in 42 U.S.C. 5 1981a(b)(l). At
the outset of its analysis, the Court noted that when Congress drafted that provision, it modeled the
language on that employed in Smith v. Wade, 461 U.S. 30 (1983) (a seminal case on punitive damages
under 42 U.S.C. 1983). The Court therefore interpreted the relevant statutory terms in lockstep with its
understanding of the parallel language in Smith. See Kolstad, 119 S. Ct. at 2 124-25. Consequently, we
believe that Kolstad's teachings are fully applicable to punitive damages under section 1983.
Our qualified immunity determination, see supra Part II(C), does not directly address this
requirement. In assaying qualified immunity, we inquired into whether Boulter's presumed belief that
probable cause existed was objectively reasonable. The focus of the punitive damages inquiry, however,
is subjective.
O Lawriter Corporation. All rights reserved.

The CasemakerTMOnline database is a compilation exclusively owned by Lawriter Corporation. The database
is provided for use under the terms, notices and conditions as expressly stated under the online end user license

agreement to which all users assent in order to access the database.

